
    <h2>
      CHAPTER I. THE MESSENGER
    </h2>
    <p>
      Peter Blood, bachelor of medicine and several other things besides, smoked
      a pipe and tended the geraniums boxed on the sill of his window above
      Water Lane in the town of Bridgewater.
    </p>
    <p>
      Sternly disapproving eyes considered him from a window opposite, but went
      disregarded. Mr. Blood&rsquo;s attention was divided between his task and the
      stream of humanity in the narrow street below; a stream which poured for
      the second time that day towards Castle Field, where earlier in the
      afternoon Ferguson, the Duke&rsquo;s chaplain, had preached a sermon containing
      more treason than divinity.
    </p>
    <p>
      These straggling, excited groups were mainly composed of men with green
      boughs in their hats and the most ludicrous of weapons in their hands.
      Some, it is true, shouldered fowling pieces, and here and there a sword
      was brandished; but more of them were armed with clubs, and most of them
      trailed the mammoth pikes fashioned out of scythes, as formidable to the
      eye as they were clumsy to the hand. There were weavers, brewers,
      carpenters, smiths, masons, bricklayers, cobblers, and representatives of
      every other of the trades of peace among these improvised men of war.
      Bridgewater, like Taunton, had yielded so generously of its manhood to the
      service of the bastard Duke that for any to abstain whose age and strength
      admitted of his bearing arms was to brand himself a coward or a papist.
    </p>
    <p>
      Yet Peter Blood, who was not only able to bear arms, but trained and
      skilled in their use, who was certainly no coward, and a papist only when
      it suited him, tended his geraniums and smoked his pipe on that warm July
      evening as indifferently as if nothing were afoot. One other thing he did.
      He flung after those war-fevered enthusiasts a line of Horace&mdash;a poet
      for whose work he had early conceived an inordinate affection:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quo, quo, scelesti, ruitis?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And now perhaps you guess why the hot, intrepid blood inherited from the
      roving sires of his Somersetshire mother remained cool amidst all this
      frenzied fanatical heat of rebellion; why the turbulent spirit which had
      forced him once from the sedate academical bonds his father would have
      imposed upon him, should now remain quiet in the very midst of turbulence.
      You realize how he regarded these men who were rallying to the banners of
      liberty&mdash;the banners woven by the virgins of Taunton, the girls from
      the seminaries of Miss Blake and Mrs. Musgrove, who&mdash;as the ballad
      runs&mdash;had ripped open their silk petticoats to make colours for King
      Monmouth&rsquo;s army. That Latin line, contemptuously flung after them as they
      clattered down the cobbled street, reveals his mind. To him they were
      fools rushing in wicked frenzy upon their ruin.
    </p>
    <p>
      You see, he knew too much about this fellow Monmouth and the pretty brown
      slut who had borne him, to be deceived by the legend of legitimacy, on the
      strength of which this standard of rebellion had been raised. He had read
      the absurd proclamation posted at the Cross at Bridgewater&mdash;as it had
      been posted also at Taunton and elsewhere&mdash;setting forth that &ldquo;upon
      the decease of our Sovereign Lord Charles the Second, the right of
      succession to the Crown of England, Scotland, France, and Ireland, with
      the dominions and territories thereunto belonging, did legally descend and
      devolve upon the most illustrious and high-born Prince James, Duke of
      Monmouth, son and heir apparent to the said King Charles the Second.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It had moved him to laughter, as had the further announcement that &ldquo;James
      Duke of York did first cause the said late King to be poysoned, and
      immediately thereupon did usurp and invade the Crown.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He knew not which was the greater lie. For Mr. Blood had spent a third of
      his life in the Netherlands, where this same James Scott&mdash;who now
      proclaimed himself James the Second, by the grace of God, King, et cetera&mdash;first
      saw the light some six-and-thirty years ago, and he was acquainted with
      the story current there of the fellow&rsquo;s real paternity. Far from being
      legitimate&mdash;by virtue of a pretended secret marriage between Charles
      Stuart and Lucy Walter&mdash;it was possible that this Monmouth who now
      proclaimed himself King of England was not even the illegitimate child of
      the late sovereign. What but ruin and disaster could be the end of this
      grotesque pretension? How could it be hoped that England would ever
      swallow such a Perkin? And it was on his behalf, to uphold his fantastic
      claim, that these West Country clods, led by a few armigerous Whigs, had
      been seduced into rebellion!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quo, quo, scelesti, ruitis?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He laughed and sighed in one; but the laugh dominated the sigh, for Mr.
      Blood was unsympathetic, as are most self-sufficient men; and he was very
      self-sufficient; adversity had taught him so to be. A more tender-hearted
      man, possessing his vision and his knowledge, might have found cause for
      tears in the contemplation of these ardent, simple, Nonconformist sheep
      going forth to the shambles&mdash;escorted to the rallying ground on
      Castle Field by wives and daughters, sweethearts and mothers, sustained by
      the delusion that they were to take the field in defence of Right, of
      Liberty, and of Religion. For he knew, as all Bridgewater knew and had
      known now for some hours, that it was Monmouth&rsquo;s intention to deliver
      battle that same night. The Duke was to lead a surprise attack upon the
      Royalist army under Feversham that was now encamped on Sedgemoor. Mr.
      Blood assumed that Lord Feversham would be equally well-informed, and if
      in this assumption he was wrong, at least he was justified of it. He was
      not to suppose the Royalist commander so indifferently skilled in the
      trade he followed.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood knocked the ashes from his pipe, and drew back to close his
      window. As he did so, his glance travelling straight across the street met
      at last the glance of those hostile eyes that watched him. There were two
      pairs, and they belonged to the Misses Pitt, two amiable, sentimental
      maiden ladies who yielded to none in Bridgewater in their worship of the
      handsome Monmouth.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood smiled and inclined his head, for he was on friendly terms with
      these ladies, one of whom, indeed, had been for a little while his
      patient. But there was no response to his greeting. Instead, the eyes gave
      him back a stare of cold disdain. The smile on his thin lips grew a little
      broader, a little less pleasant. He understood the reason of that
      hostility, which had been daily growing in this past week since Monmouth
      had come to turn the brains of women of all ages. The Misses Pitt, he
      apprehended, contemned him that he, a young and vigorous man, of a
      military training which might now be valuable to the Cause, should stand
      aloof; that he should placidly smoke his pipe and tend his geraniums on
      this evening of all evenings, when men of spirit were rallying to the
      Protestant Champion, offering their blood to place him on the throne where
      he belonged.
    </p>
    <p>
      If Mr. Blood had condescended to debate the matter with these ladies, he
      might have urged that having had his fill of wandering and adventuring, he
      was now embarked upon the career for which he had been originally intended
      and for which his studies had equipped him; that he was a man of medicine
      and not of war; a healer, not a slayer. But they would have answered him,
      he knew, that in such a cause it behoved every man who deemed himself a
      man to take up arms. They would have pointed out that their own nephew
      Jeremiah, who was by trade a sailor, the master of a ship&mdash;which by
      an ill-chance for that young man had come to anchor at this season in
      Bridgewater Bay&mdash;had quitted the helm to snatch up a musket in
      defence of Right. But Mr. Blood was not of those who argue. As I have
      said, he was a self-sufficient man.
    </p>
    <p>
      He closed the window, drew the curtains, and turned to the pleasant,
      candle-lighted room, and the table on which Mrs. Barlow, his housekeeper,
      was in the very act of spreading supper. To her, however, he spoke aloud
      his thought.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s out of favour I am with the vinegary virgins over the way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He had a pleasant, vibrant voice, whose metallic ring was softened and
      muted by the Irish accent which in all his wanderings he had never lost.
      It was a voice that could woo seductively and caressingly, or command in
      such a way as to compel obedience. Indeed, the man&rsquo;s whole nature was in
      that voice of his. For the rest of him, he was tall and spare, swarthy of
      tint as a gipsy, with eyes that were startlingly blue in that dark face
      and under those level black brows. In their glance those eyes, flanking a
      high-bridged, intrepid nose, were of singular penetration and of a steady
      haughtiness that went well with his firm lips. Though dressed in black as
      became his calling, yet it was with an elegance derived from the love of
      clothes that is peculiar to the adventurer he had been, rather than to the
      staid medicus he now was. His coat was of fine camlet, and it was laced
      with silver; there were ruffles of Mechlin at his wrists and a Mechlin
      cravat encased his throat. His great black periwig was as sedulously
      curled as any at Whitehall.
    </p>
    <p>
      Seeing him thus, and perceiving his real nature, which was plain upon him,
      you might have been tempted to speculate how long such a man would be
      content to lie by in this little backwater of the world into which chance
      had swept him some six months ago; how long he would continue to pursue
      the trade for which he had qualified himself before he had begun to live.
      Difficult of belief though it may be when you know his history, previous
      and subsequent, yet it is possible that but for the trick that Fate was
      about to play him, he might have continued this peaceful existence,
      settling down completely to the life of a doctor in this Somersetshire
      haven. It is possible, but not probable.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was the son of an Irish medicus, by a Somersetshire lady in whose veins
      ran the rover blood of the Frobishers, which may account for a certain
      wildness that had early manifested itself in his disposition. This
      wildness had profoundly alarmed his father, who for an Irishman was of a
      singularly peace-loving nature. He had early resolved that the boy should
      follow his own honourable profession, and Peter Blood, being quick to
      learn and oddly greedy of knowledge, had satisfied his parent by receiving
      at the age of twenty the degree of baccalaureus medicinae at Trinity
      College, Dublin. His father survived that satisfaction by three months
      only. His mother had then been dead some years already. Thus Peter Blood
      came into an inheritance of some few hundred pounds, with which he had set
      out to see the world and give for a season a free rein to that restless
      spirit by which he was imbued. A set of curious chances led him to take
      service with the Dutch, then at war with France; and a predilection for
      the sea made him elect that this service should be upon that element. He
      had the advantage of a commission under the famous de Ruyter, and fought
      in the Mediterranean engagement in which that great Dutch admiral lost his
      life.
    </p>
    <p>
      After the Peace of Nimeguen his movements are obscure. But we know that he
      spent two years in a Spanish prison, though we do not know how he
      contrived to get there. It may be due to this that upon his release he
      took his sword to France, and saw service with the French in their warring
      upon the Spanish Netherlands. Having reached, at last, the age of
      thirty-two, his appetite for adventure surfeited, his health having grown
      indifferent as the result of a neglected wound, he was suddenly
      overwhelmed by homesickness. He took ship from Nantes with intent to cross
      to Ireland. But the vessel being driven by stress of weather into
      Bridgewater Bay, and Blood&rsquo;s health having grown worse during the voyage,
      he decided to go ashore there, additionally urged to it by the fact that
      it was his mother&rsquo;s native soil.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus in January of that year 1685 he had come to Bridgewater, possessor of
      a fortune that was approximately the same as that with which he had
      originally set out from Dublin eleven years ago.
    </p>
    <p>
      Because he liked the place, in which his health was rapidly restored to
      him, and because he conceived that he had passed through adventures enough
      for a man&rsquo;s lifetime, he determined to settle there, and take up at last
      the profession of medicine from which he had, with so little profit,
      broken away.
    </p>
    <p>
      That is all his story, or so much of it as matters up to that night, six
      months later, when the battle of Sedgemoor was fought.
    </p>
    <p>
      Deeming the impending action no affair of his, as indeed it was not, and
      indifferent to the activity with which Bridgewater was that night agog,
      Mr. Blood closed his ears to the sounds of it, and went early to bed. He
      was peacefully asleep long before eleven o&rsquo;clock, at which hour, as you
      know, Monmouth rode but with his rebel host along the Bristol Road,
      circuitously to avoid the marshland that lay directly between himself and
      the Royal Army. You also know that his numerical advantage&mdash;possibly
      counter-balanced by the greater steadiness of the regular troops on the
      other side&mdash;and the advantages he derived from falling by surprise
      upon an army that was more or less asleep, were all lost to him by
      blundering and bad leadership before ever he was at grips with Feversham.
    </p>
    <p>
      The armies came into collision in the neighbourhood of two o&rsquo;clock in the
      morning. Mr. Blood slept undisturbed through the distant boom of cannon.
      Not until four o&rsquo;clock, when the sun was rising to dispel the last wisps
      of mist over that stricken field of battle, did he awaken from his
      tranquil slumbers.
    </p>
    <p>
      He sat up in bed, rubbed the sleep from his eyes, and collected himself.
      Blows were thundering upon the door of his house, and a voice was calling
      incoherently. This was the noise that had aroused him. Conceiving that he
      had to do with some urgent obstetrical case, he reached for bedgown and
      slippers, to go below. On the landing he almost collided with Mrs. Barlow,
      new-risen and unsightly, in a state of panic. He quieted her cluckings
      with a word of reassurance, and went himself to open.
    </p>
    <p>
      There in slanting golden light of the new-risen sun stood a breathless,
      wild-eyed man and a steaming horse. Smothered in dust and grime, his
      clothes in disarray, the left sleeve of his doublet hanging in rags, this
      young man opened his lips to speak, yet for a long moment remained
      speechless.
    </p>
    <p>
      In that moment Mr. Blood recognized him for the young shipmaster, Jeremiah
      Pitt, the nephew of the maiden ladies opposite, one who had been drawn by
      the general enthusiasm into the vortex of that rebellion. The street was
      rousing, awakened by the sailor&rsquo;s noisy advent; doors were opening, and
      lattices were being unlatched for the protrusion of anxious, inquisitive
      heads.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Take your time, now,&rdquo; said Mr. Blood. &ldquo;I never knew speed made by
      overhaste.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But the wild-eyed lad paid no heed to the admonition. He plunged,
      headlong, into speech, gasping, breathless.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is Lord Gildoy,&rdquo; he panted. &ldquo;He is sore wounded... at Oglethorpe&rsquo;s
      Farm by the river. I bore him thither... and... and he sent me for you.
      Come away! Come away!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He would have clutched the doctor, and haled him forth by force in bedgown
      and slippers as he was. But the doctor eluded that too eager hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To be sure, I&rsquo;ll come,&rdquo; said he. He was distressed. Gildoy had been a
      very friendly, generous patron to him since his settling in these parts.
      And Mr. Blood was eager enough to do what he now could to discharge the
      debt, grieved that the occasion should have arisen, and in such a manner&mdash;for
      he knew quite well that the rash young nobleman had been an active agent
      of the Duke&rsquo;s. &ldquo;To be sure, I&rsquo;ll come. But first give me leave to get some
      clothes and other things that I may need.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There&rsquo;s no time to lose.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Be easy now. I&rsquo;ll lose none. I tell ye again, ye&rsquo;ll go quickest by going
      leisurely. Come in... take a chair...&rdquo; He threw open the door of a
      parlour.
    </p>
    <p>
      Young Pitt waved aside the invitation.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll wait here. Make haste, in God&rsquo;s name.&rdquo; Mr. Blood went off to dress
      and to fetch a case of instruments.
    </p>
    <p>
      Questions concerning the precise nature of Lord Gildoy&rsquo;s hurt could wait
      until they were on their way. Whilst he pulled on his boots, he gave Mrs.
      Barlow instructions for the day, which included the matter of a dinner he
      was not destined to eat.
    </p>
    <p>
      When at last he went forth again, Mrs. Barlow clucking after him like a
      disgruntled fowl, he found young Pitt smothered in a crowd of scared,
      half-dressed townsfolk&mdash;mostly women&mdash;who had come hastening for
      news of how the battle had sped. The news he gave them was to be read in
      the lamentations with which they disturbed the morning air.
    </p>
    <p>
      At sight of the doctor, dressed and booted, the case of instruments tucked
      under his arm, the messenger disengaged himself from those who pressed
      about, shook off his weariness and the two tearful aunts that clung most
      closely, and seizing the bridle of his horse, he climbed to the saddle.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Come along, sir,&rdquo; he cried. &ldquo;Mount behind me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood, without wasting words, did as he was bidden. Pitt touched the
      horse with his spur. The little crowd gave way, and thus, upon the crupper
      of that doubly-laden horse, clinging to the belt of his companion, Peter
      Blood set out upon his Odyssey. For this Pitt, in whom he beheld no more
      than the messenger of a wounded rebel gentleman, was indeed the very
      messenger of Fate.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0002" id="link2HCH0002">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER II. KIRKE&rsquo;S DRAGOONS
    </h2>
    <p>
      Oglethorpe&rsquo;s farm stood a mile or so to the south of Bridgewater on the
      right bank of the river. It was a straggling Tudor building showing grey
      above the ivy that clothed its lower parts. Approaching it now, through
      the fragrant orchards amid which it seemed to drowse in Arcadian peace
      beside the waters of the Parrett, sparkling in the morning sunlight, Mr.
      Blood might have had a difficulty in believing it part of a world
      tormented by strife and bloodshed.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the bridge, as they had been riding out of Bridgewater, they had met a
      vanguard of fugitives from the field of battle, weary, broken men, many of
      them wounded, all of them terror-stricken, staggering in speedless haste
      with the last remnants of their strength into the shelter which it was
      their vain illusion the town would afford them. Eyes glazed with lassitude
      and fear looked up piteously out of haggard faces at Mr. Blood and his
      companion as they rode forth; hoarse voices cried a warning that merciless
      pursuit was not far behind. Undeterred, however, young Pitt rode amain
      along the dusty road by which these poor fugitives from that swift rout on
      Sedgemoor came flocking in ever-increasing numbers. Presently he swung
      aside, and quitting the road took to a pathway that crossed the dewy
      meadowlands. Even here they met odd groups of these human derelicts, who
      were scattering in all directions, looking fearfully behind them as they
      came through the long grass, expecting at every moment to see the red
      coats of the dragoons.
    </p>
    <p>
      But as Pitt&rsquo;s direction was a southward one, bringing them ever nearer to
      Feversham&rsquo;s headquarters, they were presently clear of that human flotsam
      and jetsam of the battle, and riding through the peaceful orchards heavy
      with the ripening fruit that was soon to make its annual yield of cider.
    </p>
    <p>
      At last they alighted on the kidney stones of the courtyard, and Baynes,
      the master, of the homestead, grave of countenance and flustered of
      manner, gave them welcome.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the spacious, stone-flagged hall, the doctor found Lord Gildoy&mdash;a
      very tall and dark young gentleman, prominent of chin and nose&mdash;stretched
      on a cane day-bed under one of the tall mullioned windows, in the care of
      Mrs. Baynes and her comely daughter. His cheeks were leaden-hued, his eyes
      closed, and from his blue lips came with each laboured breath a faint,
      moaning noise.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood stood for a moment silently considering his patient. He deplored
      that a youth with such bright hopes in life as Lord Gildoy&rsquo;s should have
      risked all, perhaps existence itself, to forward the ambition of a
      worthless adventurer. Because he had liked and honoured this brave lad he
      paid his case the tribute of a sigh. Then he knelt to his task, ripped
      away doublet and underwear to lay bare his lordship&rsquo;s mangled side, and
      called for water and linen and what else he needed for his work.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was still intent upon it a half-hour later when the dragoons invaded
      the homestead. The clatter of hooves and hoarse shouts that heralded their
      approach disturbed him not at all. For one thing, he was not easily
      disturbed; for another, his task absorbed him. But his lordship, who had
      now recovered consciousness, showed considerable alarm, and the
      battle-stained Jeremy Pitt sped to cover in a clothes-press. Baynes was
      uneasy, and his wife and daughter trembled. Mr. Blood reassured them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why, what&rsquo;s to fear?&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a Christian country, this, and
      Christian men do not make war upon the wounded, nor upon those who harbour
      them.&rdquo; He still had, you see, illusions about Christians. He held a glass
      of cordial, prepared under his directions, to his lordship&rsquo;s lips. &ldquo;Give
      your mind peace, my lord. The worst is done.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And then they came rattling and clanking into the stone-flagged hall&mdash;a
      round dozen jack-booted, lobster-coated troopers of the Tangiers Regiment,
      led by a sturdy, black-browed fellow with a deal of gold lace about the
      breast of his coat.
    </p>
    <p>
      Baynes stood his ground, his attitude half-defiant, whilst his wife and
      daughter shrank away in renewed fear. Mr. Blood, at the head of the
      day-bed, looked over his shoulder to take stock of the invaders.
    </p>
    <p>
      The officer barked an order, which brought his men to an attentive halt,
      then swaggered forward, his gloved hand bearing down the pummel of his
      sword, his spurs jingling musically as he moved. He announced his
      authority to the yeoman.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am Captain Hobart, of Colonel Kirke&rsquo;s dragoons. What rebels do you
      harbour?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The yeoman took alarm at that ferocious truculence. It expressed itself in
      his trembling voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I... I am no harbourer of rebels, sir. This wounded gentleman....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can see for myself.&rdquo; The Captain stamped forward to the day-bed, and
      scowled down upon the grey-faced sufferer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No need to ask how he came in this state and by his wounds. A damned
      rebel, and that&rsquo;s enough for me.&rdquo; He flung a command at his dragoons. &ldquo;Out
      with him, my lads.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood got between the day-bed and the troopers.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the name of humanity, sir!&rdquo; said he, on a note of anger. &ldquo;This is
      England, not Tangiers. The gentleman is in sore case. He may not be moved
      without peril to his life.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Hobart was amused.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, I am to be tender of the lives of these rebels! Odds blood! Do you
      think it&rsquo;s to benefit his health we&rsquo;re taking him? There&rsquo;s gallows being
      planted along the road from Weston to Bridgewater, and he&rsquo;ll serve for one
      of them as well as another. Colonel Kirke&rsquo;ll learn these nonconforming
      oafs something they&rsquo;ll not forget in generations.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;re hanging men without trial? Faith, then, it&rsquo;s mistaken I am. We&rsquo;re
      in Tangiers, after all, it seems, where your regiment belongs.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Captain considered him with a kindling eye. He looked him over from
      the soles of his riding-boots to the crown of his periwig. He noted the
      spare, active frame, the arrogant poise of the head, the air of authority
      that invested Mr. Blood, and soldier recognized soldier. The Captain&rsquo;s
      eyes narrowed. Recognition went further.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who the hell may you be?&rdquo; he exploded.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My name is Blood, sir&mdash;Peter Blood, at your service.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye&mdash;aye! Codso! That&rsquo;s the name. You were in French service once,
      were you not?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      If Mr. Blood was surprised, he did not betray it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then I remember you&mdash;five years ago, or more, you were in Tangiers.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is so. I knew your colonel.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Faith, you may be renewing the acquaintance.&rdquo; The Captain laughed
      unpleasantly. &ldquo;What brings you here, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This wounded gentleman. I was fetched to attend him. I am a medicus.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A doctor&mdash;you?&rdquo; Scorn of that lie&mdash;as he conceived it&mdash;rang
      in the heavy, hectoring voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Medicinae baccalaureus,&rdquo; said Mr. Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t fling your French at me, man,&rdquo; snapped Hobart. &ldquo;Speak English!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood&rsquo;s smile annoyed him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am a physician practising my calling in the town of Bridgewater.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Captain sneered. &ldquo;Which you reached by way of Lyme Regis in the
      following of your bastard Duke.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was Mr. Blood&rsquo;s turn to sneer. &ldquo;If your wit were as big as your voice,
      my dear, it&rsquo;s the great man you&rsquo;d be by this.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For a moment the dragoon was speechless. The colour deepened in his face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You may find me great enough to hang you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Faith, yes. Ye&rsquo;ve the look and the manners of a hangman. But if you
      practise your trade on my patient here, you may be putting a rope round
      your own neck. He&rsquo;s not the kind you may string up and no questions asked.
      He has the right to trial, and the right to trial by his peers.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By his peers?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Captain was taken aback by these three words, which Mr. Blood had
      stressed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sure, now, any but a fool or a savage would have asked his name before
      ordering him to the gallows. The gentleman is my Lord Gildoy.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And then his lordship spoke for himself, in a weak voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I make no concealment of my association with the Duke of Monmouth. I&rsquo;ll
      take the consequences. But, if you please, I&rsquo;ll take them after trial&mdash;by
      my peers, as the doctor has said.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The feeble voice ceased, and was followed by a moment&rsquo;s silence. As is
      common in many blustering men, there was a deal of timidity deep down in
      Hobart. The announcement of his lordship&rsquo;s rank had touched those depths.
      A servile upstart, he stood in awe of titles. And he stood in awe of his
      colonel. Percy Kirke was not lenient with blunderers.
    </p>
    <p>
      By a gesture he checked his men. He must consider. Mr. Blood, observing
      his pause, added further matter for his consideration.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;ll be remembering, Captain, that Lord Gildoy will have friends and
      relatives on the Tory side, who&rsquo;ll have something to say to Colonel Kirke
      if his lordship should be handled like a common felon. You&rsquo;ll go warily,
      Captain, or, as I&rsquo;ve said, it&rsquo;s a halter for your neck ye&rsquo;ll be weaving
      this morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Hobart swept the warning aside with a bluster of contempt, but he
      acted upon it none the less. &ldquo;Take up the day-bed,&rdquo; said he, &ldquo;and convey
      him on that to Bridgewater. Lodge him in the gaol until I take order about
      him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He may not survive the journey,&rdquo; Blood remonstrated. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s in no case to
      be moved.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So much the worse for him. My affair is to round up rebels.&rdquo; He confirmed
      his order by a gesture. Two of his men took up the day-bed, and swung to
      depart with it.
    </p>
    <p>
      Gildoy made a feeble effort to put forth a hand towards Mr. Blood. &ldquo;Sir,&rdquo;
       he said, &ldquo;you leave me in your debt. If I live I shall study how to
      discharge it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood bowed for answer; then to the men: &ldquo;Bear him steadily,&rdquo; he
      commanded. &ldquo;His life depends on it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As his lordship was carried out, the Captain became brisk. He turned upon
      the yeoman.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What other cursed rebels do you harbour?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;None other, sir. His lordship....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve dealt with his lordship for the present. We&rsquo;ll deal with you in a
      moment when we&rsquo;ve searched your house. And, by God, if you&rsquo;ve lied to
      me....&rdquo; He broke off, snarling, to give an order. Four of his dragoons
      went out. In a moment they were heard moving noisily in the adjacent room.
      Meanwhile, the Captain was questing about the hall, sounding the
      wainscoting with the butt of a pistol.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood saw no profit to himself in lingering.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By your leave, it&rsquo;s a very good day I&rsquo;ll be wishing you,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By my leave, you&rsquo;ll remain awhile,&rdquo; the Captain ordered him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood shrugged, and sat down. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re tiresome,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I wonder
      your colonel hasn&rsquo;t discovered it yet.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But the Captain did not heed him. He was stooping to pick up a soiled and
      dusty hat in which there was pinned a little bunch of oak leaves. It had
      been lying near the clothes-press in which the unfortunate Pitt had taken
      refuge. The Captain smiled malevolently. His eyes raked the room, resting
      first sardonically on the yeoman, then on the two women in the background,
      and finally on Mr. Blood, who sat with one leg thrown over the other in an
      attitude of indifference that was far from reflecting his mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      Then the Captain stepped to the press, and pulled open one of the wings of
      its massive oaken door. He took the huddled inmate by the collar of his
      doublet, and lugged him out into the open.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And who the devil&rsquo;s this?&rdquo; quoth he. &ldquo;Another nobleman?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood had a vision of those gallows of which Captain Hobart had
      spoken, and of this unfortunate young shipmaster going to adorn one of
      them, strung up without trial, in the place of the other victim of whom
      the Captain had been cheated. On the spot he invented not only a title but
      a whole family for the young rebel.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Faith, ye&rsquo;ve said it, Captain. This is Viscount Pitt, first cousin to Sir
      Thomas Vernon, who&rsquo;s married to that slut Moll Kirke, sister to your own
      colonel, and sometime lady in waiting upon King James&rsquo;s queen.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Both the Captain and his prisoner gasped. But whereas thereafter young
      Pitt discreetly held his peace, the Captain rapped out a nasty oath. He
      considered his prisoner again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He&rsquo;s lying, is he not?&rdquo; he demanded, seizing the lad by the shoulder, and
      glaring into his face. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s rallying rue, by God!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If ye believe that,&rdquo; said Blood, &ldquo;hang him, and see what happens to you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The dragoon glared at the doctor and then at his prisoner. &ldquo;Pah!&rdquo; He
      thrust the lad into the hands of his men. &ldquo;Fetch him along to Bridgewater.
      And make fast that fellow also,&rdquo; he pointed to Baynes. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll show him
      what it means to harbour and comfort rebels.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was a moment of confusion. Baynes struggled in the grip of the
      troopers, protesting vehemently. The terrified women screamed until
      silenced by a greater terror. The Captain strode across to them. He took
      the girl by the shoulders. She was a pretty, golden-headed creature, with
      soft blue eyes that looked up entreatingly, piteously into the face of the
      dragoon. He leered upon her, his eyes aglow, took her chin in his hand,
      and set her shuddering by his brutal kiss.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s an earnest,&rdquo; he said, smiling grimly. &ldquo;Let that quiet you, little
      rebel, till I&rsquo;ve done with these rogues.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And he swung away again, leaving her faint and trembling in the arms of
      her anguished mother. His men stood, grinning, awaiting orders, the two
      prisoners now fast pinioned.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Take them away. Let Cornet Drake have charge of them.&rdquo; His smouldering
      eye again sought the cowering girl. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll stay awhile&mdash;to search out
      this place. There may be other rebels hidden here.&rdquo; As an afterthought, he
      added: &ldquo;And take this fellow with you.&rdquo; He pointed to Mr. Blood. &ldquo;Bestir!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood started out of his musings. He had been considering that in his
      case of instruments there was a lancet with which he might perform on
      Captain Hobart a beneficial operation. Beneficial, that is, to humanity.
      In any case, the dragoon was obviously plethoric and would be the better
      for a blood-letting. The difficulty lay in making the opportunity. He was
      beginning to wonder if he could lure the Captain aside with some tale of
      hidden treasure, when this untimely interruption set a term to that
      interesting speculation.
    </p>
    <p>
      He sought to temporize.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Faith it will suit me very well,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;For Bridgewater is my
      destination, and but that ye detained me I&rsquo;d have been on my way thither
      now.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your destination there will be the gaol.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah, bah! Ye&rsquo;re surely joking!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There&rsquo;s a gallows for you if you prefer it. It&rsquo;s merely a question of now
      or later.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Rude hands seized Mr. Blood, and that precious lancet was in the case on
      the table out of reach. He twisted out of the grip of the dragoons, for he
      was strong and agile, but they closed with him again immediately, and bore
      him down. Pinning him to the ground, they tied his wrists behind his back,
      then roughly pulled him to his feet again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Take him away,&rdquo; said Hobart shortly, and turned to issue his orders to
      the other waiting troopers. &ldquo;Go search the house, from attic to cellar;
      then report to me here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The soldiers trailed out by the door leading to the interior. Mr. Blood
      was thrust by his guards into the courtyard, where Pitt and Baynes already
      waited. From the threshold of the hall, he looked back at Captain Hobart,
      and his sapphire eyes were blazing. On his lips trembled a threat of what
      he would do to Hobart if he should happen to survive this business.
      Betimes he remembered that to utter it were probably to extinguish his
      chance of living to execute it. For to-day the King&rsquo;s men were masters in
      the West, and the West was regarded as enemy country, to be subjected to
      the worst horror of war by the victorious side. Here a captain of horse
      was for the moment lord of life and death.
    </p>
    <p>
      Under the apple-trees in the orchard Mr. Blood and his companions in
      misfortune were made fast each to a trooper&rsquo;s stirrup leather. Then at the
      sharp order of the cornet, the little troop started for Bridgewater. As
      they set out there was the fullest confirmation of Mr. Blood&rsquo;s hideous
      assumption that to the dragoons this was a conquered enemy country. There
      were sounds of rending timbers, of furniture smashed and overthrown, the
      shouts and laughter of brutal men, to announce that this hunt for rebels
      was no more than a pretext for pillage and destruction. Finally above all
      other sounds came the piercing screams of a woman in acutest agony.
    </p>
    <p>
      Baynes checked in his stride, and swung round writhing, his face ashen. As
      a consequence he was jerked from his feet by the rope that attached him to
      the stirrup leather, and he was dragged helplessly a yard or two before
      the trooper reined in, cursing him foully, and striking him with the flat
      of his sword.
    </p>
    <p>
      It came to Mr. Blood, as he trudged forward under the laden apple-trees on
      that fragrant, delicious July morning, that man&mdash;as he had long
      suspected&mdash;was the vilest work of God, and that only a fool would set
      himself up as a healer of a species that was best exterminated.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0003" id="link2HCH0003">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER III. THE LORD CHIEF JUSTICE
    </h2>
    <p>
      It was not until two months later&mdash;on the 19th of September, if you
      must have the actual date&mdash;that Peter Blood was brought to trial,
      upon a charge of high treason. We know that he was not guilty of this; but
      we need not doubt that he was quite capable of it by the time he was
      indicted. Those two months of inhuman, unspeakable imprisonment had moved
      his mind to a cold and deadly hatred of King James and his
      representatives. It says something for his fortitude that in all the
      circumstances he should still have had a mind at all. Yet, terrible as was
      the position of this entirely innocent man, he had cause for thankfulness
      on two counts. The first of these was that he should have been brought to
      trial at all; the second, that his trial took place on the date named, and
      not a day earlier. In the very delay which exacerbated him lay&mdash;although
      he did not realize it&mdash;his only chance of avoiding the gallows.
    </p>
    <p>
      Easily, but for the favour of Fortune, he might have been one of those
      haled, on the morrow of the battle, more or less haphazard from the
      overflowing gaol at Bridgewater to be summarily hanged in the market-place
      by the bloodthirsty Colonel Kirke. There was about the Colonel of the
      Tangiers Regiment a deadly despatch which might have disposed in like
      fashion of all those prisoners, numerous as they were, but for the
      vigorous intervention of Bishop Mews, which put an end to the drumhead
      courts-martial.
    </p>
    <p>
      Even so, in that first week after Sedgemoor, Kirke and Feversham contrived
      between them to put to death over a hundred men after a trial so summary
      as to be no trial at all. They required human freights for the gibbets
      with which they were planting the countryside, and they little cared how
      they procured them or what innocent lives they took. What, after all, was
      the life of a clod? The executioners were kept busy with rope and chopper
      and cauldrons of pitch. I spare you the details of that nauseating
      picture. It is, after all, with the fate of Peter Blood that we are
      concerned rather than with that of the Monmouth rebels.
    </p>
    <p>
      He survived to be included in one of those melancholy droves of prisoners
      who, chained in pairs, were marched from Bridgewater to Taunton. Those who
      were too sorely wounded to march were conveyed in carts, into which they
      were brutally crowded, their wounds undressed and festering. Many were
      fortunate enough to die upon the way. When Blood insisted upon his right
      to exercise his art so as to relieve some of this suffering, he was
      accounted importunate and threatened with a flogging. If he had one regret
      now it was that he had not been out with Monmouth. That, of course, was
      illogical; but you can hardly expect logic from a man in his position.
    </p>
    <p>
      His chain companion on that dreadful march was the same Jeremy Pitt who
      had been the agent of his present misfortunes. The young shipmaster had
      remained his close companion after their common arrest. Hence,
      fortuitously, had they been chained together in the crowded prison, where
      they were almost suffocated by the heat and the stench during those days
      of July, August, and September.
    </p>
    <p>
      Scraps of news filtered into the gaol from the outside world. Some may
      have been deliberately allowed to penetrate. Of these was the tale of
      Monmouth&rsquo;s execution. It created profoundest dismay amongst those men who
      were suffering for the Duke and for the religious cause he had professed
      to champion. Many refused utterly to believe it. A wild story began to
      circulate that a man resembling Monmouth had offered himself up in the
      Duke&rsquo;s stead, and that Monmouth survived to come again in glory to deliver
      Zion and make war upon Babylon.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood heard that tale with the same indifference with which he had
      received the news of Monmouth&rsquo;s death. But one shameful thing he heard in
      connection with this which left him not quite so unmoved, and served to
      nourish the contempt he was forming for King James. His Majesty had
      consented to see Monmouth. To have done so unless he intended to pardon
      him was a thing execrable and damnable beyond belief; for the only other
      object in granting that interview could be the evilly mean satisfaction of
      spurning the abject penitence of his unfortunate nephew.
    </p>
    <p>
      Later they heard that Lord Grey, who after the Duke&mdash;indeed, perhaps,
      before him&mdash;was the main leader of the rebellion, had purchased his
      own pardon for forty thousand pounds. Peter Blood found this of a piece
      with the rest. His contempt for King James blazed out at last.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why, here&rsquo;s a filthy mean creature to sit on a throne. If I had known as
      much of him before as I know to-day, I don&rsquo;t doubt I should have given
      cause to be where I am now.&rdquo; And then on a sudden thought: &ldquo;And where will
      Lord Gildoy be, do you suppose?&rdquo; he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      Young Pitt, whom he addressed, turned towards him a face from which the
      ruddy tan of the sea had faded almost completely during those months of
      captivity. His grey eyes were round and questioning. Blood answered him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sure, now, we&rsquo;ve never seen his lordship since that day at Oglethorpe&rsquo;s.
      And where are the other gentry that were taken?&mdash;the real leaders of
      this plaguey rebellion. Grey&rsquo;s case explains their absence, I think. They
      are wealthy men that can ransom themselves. Here awaiting the gallows are
      none but the unfortunates who followed; those who had the honour to lead
      them go free. It&rsquo;s a curious and instructive reversal of the usual way of
      these things. Faith, it&rsquo;s an uncertain world entirely!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He laughed, and settled down into that spirit of scorn, wrapped in which
      he stepped later into the great hall of Taunton Castle to take his trial.
      With him went Pitt and the yeoman Baynes. The three of them were to be
      tried together, and their case was to open the proceedings of that ghastly
      day.
    </p>
    <p>
      The hall, even to the galleries&mdash;thronged with spectators, most of
      whom were ladies&mdash;was hung in scarlet; a pleasant conceit, this, of
      the Lord Chief Justice&rsquo;s, who naturally enough preferred the colour that
      should reflect his own bloody mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the upper end, on a raised dais, sat the Lords Commissioners, the five
      judges in their scarlet robes and heavy dark periwigs, Baron Jeffreys of
      Wem enthroned in the middle place.
    </p>
    <p>
      The prisoners filed in under guard. The crier called for silence under
      pain of imprisonment, and as the hum of voices gradually became hushed,
      Mr. Blood considered with interest the twelve good men and true that
      composed the jury. Neither good nor true did they look. They were scared,
      uneasy, and hangdog as any set of thieves caught with their hands in the
      pockets of their neighbours. They were twelve shaken men, each of whom
      stood between the sword of the Lord Chief Justice&rsquo;s recent bloodthirsty
      charge and the wall of his own conscience.
    </p>
    <p>
      From them Mr. Blood&rsquo;s calm, deliberate glance passed on to consider the
      Lords Commissioners, and particularly the presiding Judge, that Lord
      Jeffreys, whose terrible fame had come ahead of him from Dorchester.
    </p>
    <p>
      He beheld a tall, slight man on the young side of forty, with an oval face
      that was delicately beautiful. There were dark stains of suffering or
      sleeplessness under the low-lidded eyes, heightening their brilliance and
      their gentle melancholy. The face was very pale, save for the vivid colour
      of the full lips and the hectic flush on the rather high but inconspicuous
      cheek-bones. It was something in those lips that marred the perfection of
      that countenance; a fault, elusive but undeniable, lurked there to belie
      the fine sensitiveness of those nostrils, the tenderness of those dark,
      liquid eyes and the noble calm of that pale brow.
    </p>
    <p>
      The physician in Mr. Blood regarded the man with peculiar interest knowing
      as he did the agonizing malady from which his lordship suffered, and the
      amazingly irregular, debauched life that he led in spite of it&mdash;perhaps
      because of it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Peter Blood, hold up your hand!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Abruptly he was recalled to his position by the harsh voice of the clerk
      of arraigns. His obedience was mechanical, and the clerk droned out the
      wordy indictment which pronounced Peter Blood a false traitor against the
      Most Illustrious and Most Excellent Prince, James the Second, by the grace
      of God, of England, Scotland, France, and Ireland King, his supreme and
      natural lord. It informed him that, having no fear of God in his heart,
      but being moved and seduced by the instigation of the Devil, he had failed
      in the love and true and due natural obedience towards his said lord the
      King, and had moved to disturb the peace and tranquillity of the kingdom
      and to stir up war and rebellion to depose his said lord the King from the
      title, honour, and the regal name of the imperial crown&mdash;and much
      more of the same kind, at the end of all of which he was invited to say
      whether he was guilty or not guilty. He answered more than was asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s entirely innocent I am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A small, sharp-faced man at a table before and to the right of him bounced
      up. It was Mr. Pollexfen, the Judge-Advocate.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you guilty or not guilty?&rdquo; snapped this peppery gentleman. &ldquo;You must
      take the words.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Words, is it?&rdquo; said Peter Blood. &ldquo;Oh&mdash;not guilty.&rdquo; And he went on,
      addressing himself to the bench. &ldquo;On this same subject of words, may it
      please your lordships, I am guilty of nothing to justify any of those
      words I have heard used to describe me, unless it be of a want of patience
      at having been closely confined for two months and longer in a foetid gaol
      with great peril to my health and even life.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Being started, he would have added a deal more; but at this point the Lord
      Chief Justice interposed in a gentle, rather plaintive voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Look you, sir: because we must observe the common and usual methods of
      trial, I must interrupt you now. You are no doubt ignorant of the forms of
      law?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not only ignorant, my lord, but hitherto most happy in that ignorance. I
      could gladly have forgone this acquaintance with them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A pale smile momentarily lightened the wistful countenance.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I believe you. You shall be fully heard when you come to your defence.
      But anything you say now is altogether irregular and improper.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Enheartened by that apparent sympathy and consideration, Mr. Blood
      answered thereafter, as was required of him, that he would be tried by God
      and his country. Whereupon, having prayed to God to send him a good
      deliverance, the clerk called upon Andrew Baynes to hold up his hand and
      plead.
    </p>
    <p>
      From Baynes, who pleaded not guilty, the clerk passed on to Pitt, who
      boldly owned his guilt. The Lord Chief Justice stirred at that.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Come; that&rsquo;s better,&rdquo; quoth he, and his four scarlet brethren nodded. &ldquo;If
      all were as obstinate as his two fellow-rebels, there would never be an
      end.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      After that ominous interpolation, delivered with an inhuman iciness that
      sent a shiver through the court, Mr. Pollexfen got to his feet. With great
      prolixity he stated the general case against the three men, and the
      particular case against Peter Blood, whose indictment was to be taken
      first.
    </p>
    <p>
      The only witness called for the King was Captain Hobart. He testified
      briskly to the manner in which he had found and taken the three prisoners,
      together with Lord Gildoy. Upon the orders of his colonel he would have
      hanged Pitt out of hand, but was restrained by the lies of the prisoner
      Blood, who led him to believe that Pitt was a peer of the realm and a
      person of consideration.
    </p>
    <p>
      As the Captain&rsquo;s evidence concluded, Lord Jeffreys looked across at Peter
      Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will the prisoner Blood ask the witness any questions?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;None, my lord. He has correctly related what occurred.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am glad to have your admission of that without any of the
      prevarications that are usual in your kind. And I will say this, that here
      prevarication would avail you little. For we always have the truth in the
      end. Be sure of that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Baynes and Pitt similarly admitted the accuracy of the Captain&rsquo;s evidence,
      whereupon the scarlet figure of the Lord Chief Justice heaved a sigh of
      relief.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This being so, let us get on, in God&rsquo;s name; for we have much to do.&rdquo;
       There was now no trace of gentleness in his voice. It was brisk and
      rasping, and the lips through which it passed were curved in scorn. &ldquo;I
      take it, Mr. Pollexfen, that the wicked treason of these three rogues
      being established&mdash;indeed, admitted by them&mdash;there is no more to
      be said.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood&rsquo;s voice rang out crisply, on a note that almost seemed to
      contain laughter.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May it please your lordship, but there&rsquo;s a deal more to be said.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship looked at him, first in blank amazement at his audacity, then
      gradually with an expression of dull anger. The scarlet lips fell into
      unpleasant, cruel lines that transfigured the whole countenance.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How now, rogue? Would you waste our time with idle subterfuge?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I would have your lordship and the gentlemen of the jury hear me on my
      defence, as your lordship promised that I should be heard.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why, so you shall, villain; so you shall.&rdquo; His lordship&rsquo;s voice was harsh
      as a file. He writhed as he spoke, and for an instant his features were
      distorted. A delicate dead-white hand, on which the veins showed blue,
      brought forth a handkerchief with which he dabbed his lips and then his
      brow. Observing him with his physician&rsquo;s eye, Peter Blood judged him a
      prey to the pain of the disease that was destroying him. &ldquo;So you shall.
      But after the admission made, what defence remains?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall judge, my lord.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is the purpose for which I sit here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And so shall you, gentlemen.&rdquo; Blood looked from judge to jury. The latter
      shifted uncomfortably under the confident flash of his blue eyes. Lord
      Jeffreys&rsquo;s bullying charge had whipped the spirit out of them. Had they,
      themselves, been prisoners accused of treason, he could not have arraigned
      them more ferociously.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood stood boldly forward, erect, self-possessed, and saturnine. He
      was freshly shaven, and his periwig, if out of curl, was at least
      carefully combed and dressed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Captain Hobart has testified to what he knows&mdash;that he found me at
      Oglethorpe&rsquo;s Farm on the Monday morning after the battle at Weston. But he
      has not told you what I did there.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Again the Judge broke in. &ldquo;Why, what should you have been doing there in
      the company of rebels, two of whom&mdash;Lord Gildoy and your fellow there&mdash;have
      already admitted their guilt?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is what I beg leave to tell your lordship.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I pray you do, and in God&rsquo;s name be brief, man. For if I am to be
      troubled with the say of all you traitor dogs, I may sit here until the
      Spring Assizes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was there, my lord, in my quality as a physician, to dress Lord
      Gildoy&rsquo;s wounds.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What&rsquo;s this? Do you tell us that you are a physician?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A graduate of Trinity College, Dublin.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good God!&rdquo; cried Lord Jeffreys, his voice suddenly swelling, his eyes
      upon the jury. &ldquo;What an impudent rogue is this! You heard the witness say
      that he had known him in Tangiers some years ago, and that he was then an
      officer in the French service. You heard the prisoner admit that the
      witness had spoken the truth?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why, so he had. Yet what I am telling you is also true, so it is. For
      some years I was a soldier; but before that I was a physician, and I have
      been one again since January last, established in Bridgewater, as I can
      bring a hundred witnesses to prove.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There&rsquo;s not the need to waste our time with that. I will convict you out
      of your own rascally mouth. I will ask you only this: How came you, who
      represent yourself as a physician peacefully following your calling in the
      town of Bridgewater, to be with the army of the Duke of Monmouth?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was never with that army. No witness has sworn to that, and I dare
      swear that no witness will. I never was attracted to the late rebellion. I
      regarded the adventure as a wicked madness. I take leave to ask your
      lordship&rdquo; (his brogue became more marked than ever) &ldquo;what should I, who
      was born and bred a papist, be doing in the army of the Protestant
      Champion?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A papist thou?&rdquo; The judge gloomed on him a moment. &ldquo;Art more like a
      snivelling, canting Jack Presbyter. I tell you, man, I can smell a
      Presbyterian forty miles.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then I&rsquo;ll take leave to marvel that with so keen a nose your lordship
      can&rsquo;t smell a papist at four paces.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was a ripple of laughter in the galleries, instantly quelled by the
      fierce glare of the Judge and the voice of the crier.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lord Jeffreys leaned farther forward upon his desk. He raised that
      delicate white hand, still clutching its handkerchief, and sprouting from
      a froth of lace.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll leave your religion out of account for the moment, friend,&rdquo; said
      he. &ldquo;But mark what I say to you.&rdquo; With a minatory forefinger he beat the
      time of his words. &ldquo;Know, friend, that there is no religion a man can
      pretend to can give a countenance to lying. Thou hast a precious immortal
      soul, and there is nothing in the world equal to it in value. Consider
      that the great God of Heaven and Earth, before Whose tribunal thou and we
      and all persons are to stand at the last day, will take vengeance on thee
      for every falsehood, and justly strike thee into eternal flames, make thee
      drop into the bottomless pit of fire and brimstone, if thou offer to
      deviate the least from the truth and nothing but the truth. For I tell
      thee God is not mocked. On that I charge you to answer truthfully. How
      came you to be taken with these rebels?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood gaped at him a moment in consternation. The man was
      incredible, unreal, fantastic, a nightmare judge. Then he collected
      himself to answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was summoned that morning to succour Lord Gildoy, and I conceived it to
      be the duty imposed upon me by my calling to answer that summons.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you so?&rdquo; The Judge, terrible now of aspect&mdash;his face white, his
      twisted lips red as the blood for which they thirsted&mdash;glared upon
      him in evil mockery. Then he controlled himself as if by an effort. He
      sighed. He resumed his earlier gentle plaintiveness. &ldquo;Lord! How you waste
      our time. But I&rsquo;ll have patience with you. Who summoned you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Master Pitt there, as he will testify.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh! Master Pitt will testify&mdash;he that is himself a traitor
      self-confessed. Is that your witness?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is also Master Baynes here, who can answer to it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good Master Baynes will have to answer for himself; and I doubt not he&rsquo;ll
      be greatly exercised to save his own neck from a halter. Come, come, sir;
      are these your only witnesses?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I could bring others from Bridgewater, who saw me set out that morning
      upon the crupper of Master Pitt&rsquo;s horse.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship smiled. &ldquo;It will not be necessary. For, mark me, I do not
      intend to waste more time on you. Answer me only this: When Master Pitt,
      as you pretend, came to summon you, did you know that he had been, as you
      have heard him confess, of Monmouth&rsquo;s following?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I did, My lord.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You did! Ha!&rdquo; His lordship looked at the cringing jury and uttered a
      short, stabbing laugh. &ldquo;Yet in spite of that you went with him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To succour a wounded man, as was my sacred duty.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thy sacred duty, sayest thou?&rdquo; Fury blazed out of him again. &ldquo;Good God!
      What a generation of vipers do we live in! Thy sacred duty, rogue, is to
      thy King and to God. But let it pass. Did he tell you whom it was that you
      were desired to succour?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lord Gildoy&mdash;yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And you knew that Lord Gildoy had been wounded in the battle, and on what
      side he fought?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I knew.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And yet, being, as you would have us believe, a true and loyal subject of
      our Lord the King, you went to succour him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood lost patience for a moment. &ldquo;My business, my lord, was with
      his wounds, not with his politics.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A murmur from the galleries and even from the jury approved him. It served
      only to drive his terrible judge into a deeper fury.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Jesus God! Was there ever such an impudent villain in the world as thou?&rdquo;
       He swung, white-faced, to the jury. &ldquo;I hope, gentlemen of the jury, you
      take notice of the horrible carriage of this traitor rogue, and withal you
      cannot but observe the spirit of this sort of people, what a villainous
      and devilish one it is. Out of his own mouth he has said enough to hang
      him a dozen times. Yet is there more. Answer me this, sir: When you
      cozened Captain Hobart with your lies concerning the station of this other
      traitor Pitt, what was your business then?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To save him from being hanged without trial, as was threatened.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What concern was it of yours whether or how the wretch was hanged?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Justice is the concern of every loyal subject, for an injustice committed
      by one who holds the King&rsquo;s commission is in some sense a dishonour to the
      King&rsquo;s majesty.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was a shrewd, sharp thrust aimed at the jury, and it reveals, I think,
      the alertness of the man&rsquo;s mind, his self-possession ever steadiest in
      moments of dire peril. With any other jury it must have made the
      impression that he hoped to make. It may even have made its impression
      upon these poor pusillanimous sheep. But the dread judge was there to
      efface it.
    </p>
    <p>
      He gasped aloud, then flung himself violently forward.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lord of Heaven!&rdquo; he stormed. &ldquo;Was there ever such a canting, impudent
      rascal? But I have done with you. I see thee, villain, I see thee already
      with a halter round thy neck.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Having spoken so, gloatingly, evilly, he sank back again, and composed
      himself. It was as if a curtain fell. All emotion passed again from his
      pale face. Back to invest it again came that gentle melancholy. Speaking
      after a moment&rsquo;s pause, his voice was soft, almost tender, yet every word
      of it carried sharply through that hushed court.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I know my own heart it is not in my nature to desire the hurt of
      anybody, much less to delight in his eternal perdition. It is out of
      compassion for you that I have used all these words&mdash;because I would
      have you have some regard for your immortal soul, and not ensure its
      damnation by obdurately persisting in falsehood and prevarication. But I
      see that all the pains in the world, and all compassion and charity are
      lost upon you, and therefore I will say no more to you.&rdquo; He turned again
      to the jury that countenance of wistful beauty. &ldquo;Gentlemen, I must tell
      you for law, of which we are the judges, and not you, that if any person
      be in actual rebellion against the King, and another person&mdash;who
      really and actually was not in rebellion&mdash;does knowingly receive,
      harbour, comfort, or succour him, such a person is as much a traitor as he
      who indeed bore arms. We are bound by our oaths and consciences to declare
      to you what is law; and you are bound by your oaths and your consciences
      to deliver and to declare to us by your verdict the truth of the facts.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Upon that he proceeded to his summing-up, showing how Baynes and Blood
      were both guilty of treason, the first for having harboured a traitor, the
      second for having succoured that traitor by dressing his wounds. He
      interlarded his address by sycophantic allusions to his natural lord and
      lawful sovereign, the King, whom God had set over them, and with
      vituperations of Nonconformity and of Monmouth, of whom&mdash;in his own
      words&mdash;he dared boldly affirm that the meanest subject within the
      kingdom that was of legitimate birth had a better title to the crown.
      &ldquo;Jesus God! That ever we should have such a generation of vipers among
      us,&rdquo; he burst out in rhetorical frenzy. And then he sank back as if
      exhausted by the violence he had used. A moment he was still, dabbing his
      lips again; then he moved uneasily; once more his features were twisted by
      pain, and in a few snarling, almost incoherent words he dismissed the jury
      to consider the verdict.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood had listened to the intemperate, the blasphemous, and almost
      obscene invective of that tirade with a detachment that afterwards, in
      retrospect, surprised him. He was so amazed by the man, by the reactions
      taking place in him between mind and body, and by his methods of bullying
      and coercing the jury into bloodshed, that he almost forgot that his own
      life was at stake.
    </p>
    <p>
      The absence of that dazed jury was a brief one. The verdict found the
      three prisoners guilty. Peter Blood looked round the scarlet-hung court.
      For an instant that foam of white faces seemed to heave before him. Then
      he was himself again, and a voice was asking him what he had to say for
      himself, why sentence of death should not be passed upon him, being
      convicted of high treason.
    </p>
    <p>
      He laughed, and his laugh jarred uncannily upon the deathly stillness of
      the court. It was all so grotesque, such a mockery of justice administered
      by that wistful-eyed jack-pudding in scarlet, who was himself a mockery&mdash;the
      venal instrument of a brutally spiteful and vindictive king. His laughter
      shocked the austerity of that same jack-pudding.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you laugh, sirrah, with the rope about your neck, upon the very
      threshold of that eternity you are so suddenly to enter into?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And then Blood took his revenge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Faith, it&rsquo;s in better case I am for mirth than your lordship. For I have
      this to say before you deliver judgment. Your lordship sees me&mdash;an
      innocent man whose only offence is that I practised charity&mdash;with a
      halter round my neck. Your lordship, being the justiciar, speaks with
      knowledge of what is to come to me. I, being a physician, may speak with
      knowledge of what is to come to your lordship. And I tell you that I would
      not now change places with you&mdash;that I would not exchange this halter
      that you fling about my neck for the stone that you carry in your body.
      The death to which you may doom me is a light pleasantry by contrast with
      the death to which your lordship has been doomed by that Great Judge with
      whose name your lordship makes so free.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Lord Chief Justice sat stiffly upright, his face ashen, his lips
      twitching, and whilst you might have counted ten there was no sound in
      that paralyzed court after Peter Blood had finished speaking. All those
      who knew Lord Jeffreys regarded this as the lull before the storm, and
      braced themselves for the explosion. But none came.
    </p>
    <p>
      Slowly, faintly, the colour crept back into that ashen face. The scarlet
      figure lost its rigidity, and bent forward. His lordship began to speak.
      In a muted voice and briefly&mdash;much more briefly than his wont on such
      occasions and in a manner entirely mechanical, the manner of a man whose
      thoughts are elsewhere while his lips are speaking&mdash;he delivered
      sentence of death in the prescribed form, and without the least allusion
      to what Peter Blood had said. Having delivered it, he sank back exhausted,
      his eyes half-closed, his brow agleam with sweat.
    </p>
    <p>
      The prisoners filed out.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Pollexfen&mdash;a Whig at heart despite the position of Judge-Advocate
      which he occupied&mdash;was overheard by one of the jurors to mutter in
      the ear of a brother counsel:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On my soul, that swarthy rascal has given his lordship a scare. It&rsquo;s a
      pity he must hang. For a man who can frighten Jeffreys should go far.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0004" id="link2HCH0004">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER IV. HUMAN MERCHANDISE
    </h2>
    <p>
      Mr. Pollexfen was at one and the same time right and wrong&mdash;a
      condition much more common than is generally supposed.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was right in his indifferently expressed thought that a man whose mien
      and words could daunt such a lord of terror as Jeffreys, should by the
      dominance of his nature be able to fashion himself a considerable destiny.
      He was wrong&mdash;though justifiably so&mdash;in his assumption that
      Peter Blood must hang.
    </p>
    <p>
      I have said that the tribulations with which he was visited as a result of
      his errand of mercy to Oglethorpe&rsquo;s Farm contained&mdash;although as yet
      he did not perceive it, perhaps&mdash;two sources of thankfulness: one
      that he was tried at all; the other that his trial took place on the 19th
      of September. Until the 18th, the sentences passed by the court of the
      Lords Commissioners had been carried out literally and expeditiously. But
      on the morning of the 19th there arrived at Taunton a courier from Lord
      Sunderland, the Secretary of State, with a letter for Lord Jeffreys
      wherein he was informed that His Majesty had been graciously pleased to
      command that eleven hundred rebels should be furnished for transportation
      to some of His Majesty&rsquo;s southern plantations, Jamaica, Barbados, or any
      of the Leeward Islands.
    </p>
    <p>
      You are not to suppose that this command was dictated by any sense of
      mercy. Lord Churchill was no more than just when he spoke of the King&rsquo;s
      heart as being as insensible as marble. It had been realized that in these
      wholesale hangings there was taking place a reckless waste of valuable
      material. Slaves were urgently required in the plantations, and a healthy,
      vigorous man could be reckoned worth at least from ten to fifteen pounds.
      Then, there were at court many gentlemen who had some claim or other upon
      His Majesty&rsquo;s bounty. Here was a cheap and ready way to discharge these
      claims. From amongst the convicted rebels a certain number might be set
      aside to be bestowed upon those gentlemen, so that they might dispose of
      them to their own profit.
    </p>
    <p>
      My Lord Sunderland&rsquo;s letter gives precise details of the royal munificence
      in human flesh. A thousand prisoners were to be distributed among some
      eight courtiers and others, whilst a postscriptum to his lordship&rsquo;s letter
      asked for a further hundred to be held at the disposal of the Queen. These
      prisoners were to be transported at once to His Majesty&rsquo;s southern
      plantations, and to be kept there for the space of ten years before being
      restored to liberty, the parties to whom they were assigned entering into
      security to see that transportation was immediately effected.
    </p>
    <p>
      We know from Lord Jeffreys&rsquo;s secretary how the Chief Justice inveighed
      that night in drunken frenzy against this misplaced clemency to which His
      Majesty had been persuaded. We know how he attempted by letter to induce
      the King to reconsider his decision. But James adhered to it. It was&mdash;apart
      from the indirect profit he derived from it&mdash;a clemency full worthy
      of him. He knew that to spare lives in this fashion was to convert them
      into living deaths. Many must succumb in torment to the horrors of West
      Indian slavery, and so be the envy of their surviving companions.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus it happened that Peter Blood, and with him Jeremy Pitt and Andrew
      Baynes, instead of being hanged, drawn, and quartered as their sentences
      directed, were conveyed to Bristol and there shipped with some fifty
      others aboard the Jamaica Merchant. From close confinement under hatches,
      ill-nourishment and foul water, a sickness broke out amongst them, of
      which eleven died. Amongst these was the unfortunate yeoman from
      Oglethorpe&rsquo;s Farm, brutally torn from his quiet homestead amid the
      fragrant cider orchards for no other sin but that he had practised mercy.
    </p>
    <p>
      The mortality might have been higher than it was but for Peter Blood. At
      first the master of the Jamaica Merchant had answered with oaths and
      threats the doctor&rsquo;s expostulations against permitting men to perish in
      this fashion, and his insistence that he should be made free of the
      medicine chest and given leave to minister to the sick. But presently
      Captain Gardner came to see that he might be brought to task for these too
      heavy losses of human merchandise and because of this he was belatedly
      glad to avail himself of the skill of Peter Blood. The doctor went to work
      zealously and zestfully, and wrought so ably that, by his ministrations
      and by improving the condition of his fellow-captives, he checked the
      spread of the disease.
    </p>
    <p>
      Towards the middle of December the Jamaica Merchant dropped anchor in
      Carlisle Bay, and put ashore the forty-two surviving rebels-convict.
    </p>
    <p>
      If these unfortunates had imagined&mdash;as many of them appear to have
      done&mdash;that they were coming into some wild, savage country, the
      prospect, of which they had a glimpse before they were hustled over the
      ship&rsquo;s side into the waiting boats, was enough to correct the impression.
      They beheld a town of sufficiently imposing proportions composed of houses
      built upon European notions of architecture, but without any of the huddle
      usual in European cities. The spire of a church rose dominantly above the
      red roofs, a fort guarded the entrance of the wide harbour, with guns
      thrusting their muzzles between the crenels, and the wide facade of
      Government House revealed itself dominantly placed on a gentle hill above
      the town. This hill was vividly green as is an English hill in April, and
      the day was such a day as April gives to England, the season of heavy
      rains being newly ended.
    </p>
    <p>
      On a wide cobbled space on the sea front they found a guard of red-coated
      militia drawn up to receive them, and a crowd&mdash;attracted by their
      arrival&mdash;which in dress and manner differed little from a crowd in a
      seaport at home save that it contained fewer women and a great number of
      negroes.
    </p>
    <p>
      To inspect them, drawn up there on the mole, came Governor Steed, a short,
      stout, red-faced gentleman, in blue taffetas burdened by a prodigious
      amount of gold lace, who limped a little and leaned heavily upon a stout
      ebony cane. After him, in the uniform of a colonel of the Barbados
      Militia, rolled a tall, corpulent man who towered head and shoulders above
      the Governor, with malevolence plainly written on his enormous yellowish
      countenance. At his side, and contrasting oddly with his grossness, moving
      with an easy stripling grace, came a slight young lady in a modish
      riding-gown. The broad brim of a grey hat with scarlet sweep of ostrich
      plume shaded an oval face upon which the climate of the Tropic of Cancer
      had made no impression, so delicately fair was its complexion. Ringlets of
      red-brown hair hung to her shoulders. Frankness looked out from her hazel
      eyes which were set wide; commiseration repressed now the mischievousness
      that normally inhabited her fresh young mouth.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood caught himself staring in a sort of amazement at that piquant
      face, which seemed here so out of place, and finding his stare returned,
      he shifted uncomfortably. He grew conscious of the sorry figure that he
      cut. Unwashed, with rank and matted hair and a disfiguring black beard
      upon his face, and the erstwhile splendid suit of black camlet in which he
      had been taken prisoner now reduced to rags that would have disgraced a
      scarecrow, he was in no case for inspection by such dainty eyes as these.
      Nevertheless, they continued to inspect him with round-eyed, almost
      childlike wonder and pity. Their owner put forth a hand to touch the
      scarlet sleeve of her companion, whereupon with an ill-tempered grunt the
      man swung his great bulk round so that he directly confronted her.
    </p>
    <p>
      Looking up into his face, she was speaking to him earnestly, but the
      Colonel plainly gave her no more than the half of his attention. His
      little beady eyes, closely flanking a fleshly, pendulous nose, had passed
      from her and were fixed upon fair-haired, sturdy young Pitt, who was
      standing beside Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Governor had also come to a halt, and for a moment now that little
      group of three stood in conversation. What the lady said, Peter could not
      hear at all, for she lowered her voice; the Colonel&rsquo;s reached him in a
      confused rumble, but the Governor was neither considerate nor indistinct;
      he had a high-pitched voice which carried far, and believing himself
      witty, he desired to be heard by all.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But, my dear Colonel Bishop, it is for you to take first choice from this
      dainty nosegay, and at your own price. After that we&rsquo;ll send the rest to
      auction.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop nodded his acknowledgment. He raised his voice in
      answering. &ldquo;Your excellency is very good. But, faith, they&rsquo;re a weedy lot,
      not likely to be of much value in the plantation.&rdquo; His beady eyes scanned
      them again, and his contempt of them deepened the malevolence of his face.
      It was as if he were annoyed with them for being in no better condition.
      Then he beckoned forward Captain Gardner, the master of the Jamaica
      Merchant, and for some minutes stood in talk with him over a list which
      the latter produced at his request.
    </p>
    <p>
      Presently he waved aside the list and advanced alone towards the
      rebels-convict, his eyes considering them, his lips pursed. Before the
      young Somersetshire shipmaster he came to a halt, and stood an instant
      pondering him. Then he fingered the muscles of the young man&rsquo;s arm, and
      bade him open his mouth that he might see his teeth. He pursed his coarse
      lips again and nodded.
    </p>
    <p>
      He spoke to Gardner over his shoulder.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Fifteen pounds for this one.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Captain made a face of dismay. &ldquo;Fifteen pounds! It isn&rsquo;t half what I
      meant to ask for him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is double what I had meant to give,&rdquo; grunted the Colonel.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But he would be cheap at thirty pounds, your honour.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can get a negro for that. These white swine don&rsquo;t live. They&rsquo;re not fit
      for the labour.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Gardner broke into protestations of Pitt&rsquo;s health, youth, and vigour. It
      was not a man he was discussing; it was a beast of burden. Pitt, a
      sensitive lad, stood mute and unmoving. Only the ebb and flow of colour in
      his cheeks showed the inward struggle by which he maintained his
      self-control.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood was nauseated by the loathsome haggle.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the background, moving slowly away down the line of prisoners, went the
      lady in conversation with the Governor, who smirked and preened himself as
      he limped beside her. She was unconscious of the loathly business the
      Colonel was transacting. Was she, wondered Blood, indifferent to it?
    </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop swung on his heel to pass on.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll go as far as twenty pounds. Not a penny more, and it&rsquo;s twice as much
      as you are like to get from Crabston.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Gardner, recognizing the finality of the tone, sighed and yielded.
      Already Bishop was moving down the line. For Mr. Blood, as for a weedy
      youth on his left, the Colonel had no more than a glance of contempt. But
      the next man, a middle-aged Colossus named Wolverstone, who had lost an
      eye at Sedgemoor, drew his regard, and the haggling was recommenced.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood stood there in the brilliant sunshine and inhaled the fragrant
      air, which was unlike any air that he had ever breathed. It was laden with
      a strange perfume, blend of logwood flower, pimento, and aromatic cedars.
      He lost himself in unprofitable speculations born of that singular
      fragrance. He was in no mood for conversation, nor was Pitt, who stood
      dumbly at his side, and who was afflicted mainly at the moment by the
      thought that he was at last about to be separated from this man with whom
      he had stood shoulder to shoulder throughout all these troublous months,
      and whom he had come to love and depend upon for guidance and sustenance.
      A sense of loneliness and misery pervaded him by contrast with which all
      that he had endured seemed as nothing. To Pitt, this separation was the
      poignant climax of all his sufferings.
    </p>
    <p>
      Other buyers came and stared at them, and passed on. Blood did not heed
      them. And then at the end of the line there was a movement. Gardner was
      speaking in a loud voice, making an announcement to the general public of
      buyers that had waited until Colonel Bishop had taken his choice of that
      human merchandise. As he finished, Blood, looking in his direction,
      noticed that the girl was speaking to Bishop, and pointing up the line
      with a silver-hilted riding-whip she carried. Bishop shaded his eyes with
      his hand to look in the direction in which she was pointing. Then slowly,
      with his ponderous, rolling gait, he approached again accompanied by
      Gardner, and followed by the lady and the Governor.
    </p>
    <p>
      On they came until the Colonel was abreast of Blood. He would have passed
      on, but that the lady tapped his arm with her whip.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But this is the man I meant,&rdquo; she said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This one?&rdquo; Contempt rang in the voice. Peter Blood found himself staring
      into a pair of beady brown eyes sunk into a yellow, fleshly face like
      currants into a dumpling. He felt the colour creeping into his face under
      the insult of that contemptuous inspection. &ldquo;Bah! A bag of bones. What
      should I do with him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was turning away when Gardner interposed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He maybe lean, but he&rsquo;s tough; tough and healthy. When half of them was
      sick and the other half sickening, this rogue kept his legs and doctored
      his fellows. But for him there&rsquo;d ha&rsquo; been more deaths than there was. Say
      fifteen pounds for him, Colonel. That&rsquo;s cheap enough. He&rsquo;s tough, I tell
      your honour&mdash;tough and strong, though he be lean. And he&rsquo;s just the
      man to bear the heat when it comes. The climate&rsquo;ll never kill him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There came a chuckle from Governor Steed. &ldquo;You hear, Colonel. Trust your
      niece. Her sex knows a man when it sees one.&rdquo; And he laughed, well pleased
      with his wit.
    </p>
    <p>
      But he laughed alone. A cloud of annoyance swept across the face of the
      Colonel&rsquo;s niece, whilst the Colonel himself was too absorbed in the
      consideration of this bargain to heed the Governor&rsquo;s humour. He twisted
      his lip a little, stroking his chin with his hand the while. Jeremy Pitt
      had almost ceased to breathe.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll give you ten pounds for him,&rdquo; said the Colonel at last.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood prayed that the offer might be rejected. For no reason that he
      could have given you, he was taken with repugnance at the thought of
      becoming the property of this gross animal, and in some sort the property
      of that hazel-eyed young girl. But it would need more than repugnance to
      save him from his destiny. A slave is a slave, and has no power to shape
      his fate. Peter Blood was sold to Colonel Bishop&mdash;a disdainful buyer&mdash;for
      the ignominious sum of ten pounds.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0005" id="link2HCH0005">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER V. ARABELLA BISHOP
    </h2>
    <p>
      One sunny morning in January, about a month after the arrival of the
      Jamaica Merchant at Bridgetown, Miss Arabella Bishop rode out from her
      uncle&rsquo;s fine house on the heights to the northwest of the city. She was
      attended by two negroes who trotted after her at a respectful distance,
      and her destination was Government House, whither she went to visit the
      Governor&rsquo;s lady, who had lately been ailing. Reaching the summit of a
      gentle, grassy slope, she met a tall, lean man dressed in a sober,
      gentlemanly fashion, who was walking in the opposite direction. He was a
      stranger to her, and strangers were rare enough in the island. And yet in
      some vague way he did not seem quite a stranger.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Arabella drew rein, affecting to pause that she might admire the
      prospect, which was fair enough to warrant it. Yet out of the corner of
      those hazel eyes she scanned this fellow very attentively as he came
      nearer. She corrected her first impression of his dress. It was sober
      enough, but hardly gentlemanly. Coat and breeches were of plain homespun;
      and if the former sat so well upon him it was more by virtue of his
      natural grace than by that of tailoring. His stockings were of cotton,
      harsh and plain, and the broad castor, which he respectfully doffed as he
      came up with her, was an old one unadorned by band or feather. What had
      seemed to be a periwig at a little distance was now revealed for the man&rsquo;s
      own lustrous coiling black hair.
    </p>
    <p>
      Out of a brown, shaven, saturnine face two eyes that were startlingly blue
      considered her gravely. The man would have passed on but that she detained
      him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think I know you, sir,&rdquo; said she.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her voice was crisp and boyish, and there was something of boyishness in
      her manner&mdash;if one can apply the term to so dainty a lady. It arose
      perhaps from an ease, a directness, which disdained the artifices of her
      sex, and set her on good terms with all the world. To this it may be due
      that Miss Arabella had reached the age of five and twenty not merely
      unmarried but unwooed. She used with all men a sisterly frankness which in
      itself contains a quality of aloofness, rendering it difficult for any man
      to become her lover.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her negroes had halted at some distance in the rear, and they squatted now
      upon the short grass until it should be her pleasure to proceed upon her
      way.
    </p>
    <p>
      The stranger came to a standstill upon being addressed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A lady should know her own property,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My property?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your uncle&rsquo;s, leastways. Let me present myself. I am called Peter Blood,
      and I am worth precisely ten pounds. I know it because that is the sum
      your uncle paid for me. It is not every man has the same opportunities of
      ascertaining his real value.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She recognized him then. She had not seen him since that day upon the mole
      a month ago, and that she should not instantly have known him again
      despite the interest he had then aroused in her is not surprising,
      considering the change he had wrought in his appearance, which now was
      hardly that of a slave.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My God!&rdquo; said she. &ldquo;And you can laugh!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s an achievement,&rdquo; he admitted. &ldquo;But then, I have not fared as ill as
      I might.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have heard of that,&rdquo; said she.
    </p>
    <p>
      What she had heard was that this rebel-convict had been discovered to be a
      physician. The thing had come to the ears of Governor Steed, who suffered
      damnably from the gout, and Governor Steed had borrowed the fellow from
      his purchaser. Whether by skill or good fortune, Peter Blood had afforded
      the Governor that relief which his excellency had failed to obtain from
      the ministrations of either of the two physicians practising in
      Bridgetown. Then the Governor&rsquo;s lady had desired him to attend her for the
      megrims. Mr. Blood had found her suffering from nothing worse than
      peevishness&mdash;the result of a natural petulance aggravated by the
      dulness of life in Barbados to a lady of her social aspirations. But he
      had prescribed for her none the less, and she had conceived herself the
      better for his prescription. After that the fame of him had gone through
      Bridgetown, and Colonel Bishop had found that there was more profit to be
      made out of this new slave by leaving him to pursue his profession than by
      setting him to work on the plantations, for which purpose he had been
      originally acquired.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is yourself, madam, I have to thank for my comparatively easy and
      clean condition,&rdquo; said Mr. Blood, &ldquo;and I am glad to take this opportunity
      of doing so.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The gratitude was in his words rather than in his tone. Was he mocking,
      she wondered, and looked at him with the searching frankness that another
      might have found disconcerting. He took the glance for a question, and
      answered it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If some other planter had bought me,&rdquo; he explained, &ldquo;it is odds that the
      facts of my shining abilities might never have been brought to light, and
      I should be hewing and hoeing at this moment like the poor wretches who
      were landed with me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And why do you thank me for that? It was my uncle who bought you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But he would not have done so had you not urged him. I perceived your
      interest. At the time I resented it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You resented it?&rdquo; There was a challenge in her boyish voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have had no lack of experiences of this mortal life; but to be bought
      and sold was a new one, and I was hardly in the mood to love my
      purchaser.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I urged you upon my uncle, sir, it was that I commiserated you.&rdquo; There
      was a slight severity in her tone, as if to reprove the mixture of mockery
      and flippancy in which he seemed to be speaking.
    </p>
    <p>
      She proceeded to explain herself. &ldquo;My uncle may appear to you a hard man.
      No doubt he is. They are all hard men, these planters. It is the life, I
      suppose. But there are others here who are worse. There is Mr. Crabston,
      for instance, up at Speightstown. He was there on the mole, waiting to buy
      my uncle&rsquo;s leavings, and if you had fallen into his hands... A dreadful
      man. That is why.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was a little bewildered.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This interest in a stranger...&rdquo; he began. Then changed the direction of
      his probe. &ldquo;But there were others as deserving of commiseration.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You did not seem quite like the others.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am not,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh!&rdquo; She stared at him, bridling a little. &ldquo;You have a good opinion of
      yourself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On the contrary. The others are all worthy rebels. I am not. That is the
      difference. I was one who had not the wit to see that England requires
      purifying. I was content to pursue a doctor&rsquo;s trade in Bridgewater whilst
      my betters were shedding their blood to drive out an unclean tyrant and
      his rascally crew.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sir!&rdquo; she checked him. &ldquo;I think you are talking treason.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I hope I am not obscure,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There are those here who would have you flogged if they heard you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The Governor would never allow it. He has the gout, and his lady has the
      megrims.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you depend upon that?&rdquo; She was frankly scornful.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have certainly never had the gout; probably not even the megrims,&rdquo;
       said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      She made a little impatient movement with her hand, and looked away from
      him a moment, out to sea. Quite suddenly she looked at him again; and now
      her brows were knit.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But if you are not a rebel, how come you here?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He saw the thing she apprehended, and he laughed. &ldquo;Faith, now, it&rsquo;s a long
      story,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And one perhaps that you would prefer not to tell?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Briefly on that he told it her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My God! What an infamy!&rdquo; she cried, when he had done.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s a sweet country England under King James! There&rsquo;s no need to
      commiserate me further. All things considered I prefer Barbados. Here at
      least one can believe in God.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He looked first to right, then to left as he spoke, from the distant
      shadowy bulk of Mount Hillbay to the limitless ocean ruffled by the winds
      of heaven. Then, as if the fair prospect rendered him conscious of his own
      littleness and the insignificance of his woes, he fell thoughtful.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is that so difficult elsewhere?&rdquo; she asked him, and she was very grave.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Men make it so.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see.&rdquo; She laughed a little, on a note of sadness, it seemed to him. &ldquo;I
      have never deemed Barbados the earthly mirror of heaven,&rdquo; she confessed.
      &ldquo;But no doubt you know your world better than I.&rdquo; She touched her horse
      with her little silver-hilted whip. &ldquo;I congratulate you on this easing of
      your misfortunes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He bowed, and she moved on. Her negroes sprang up, and went trotting after
      her.
    </p>
    <p>
      Awhile Peter Blood remained standing there, where she left him, conning
      the sunlit waters of Carlisle Bay below, and the shipping in that spacious
      haven about which the gulls were fluttering noisily.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was a fair enough prospect, he reflected, but it was a prison, and in
      announcing that he preferred it to England, he had indulged that almost
      laudable form of boasting which lies in belittling our misadventures.
    </p>
    <p>
      He turned, and resuming his way, went off in long, swinging strides
      towards the little huddle of huts built of mud and wattles&mdash;a
      miniature village enclosed in a stockade which the plantation slaves
      inhabited, and where he, himself, was lodged with them.
    </p>
    <p>
      Through his mind sang the line of Lovelace:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
  &ldquo;Stone walls do not a prison make,
   Nor iron bars a cage.&rdquo;
 </pre>
    <p>
      But he gave it a fresh meaning, the very converse of that which its author
      had intended. A prison, he reflected, was a prison, though it had neither
      walls nor bars, however spacious it might be. And as he realized it that
      morning so he was to realize it increasingly as time sped on. Daily he
      came to think more of his clipped wings, of his exclusion from the world,
      and less of the fortuitous liberty he enjoyed. Nor did the contrasting of
      his comparatively easy lot with that of his unfortunate fellow-convicts
      bring him the satisfaction a differently constituted mind might have
      derived from it. Rather did the contemplation of their misery increase the
      bitterness that was gathering in his soul.
    </p>
    <p>
      Of the forty-two who had been landed with him from the Jamaica Merchant,
      Colonel Bishop had purchased no less than twenty-five. The remainder had
      gone to lesser planters, some of them to Speightstown, and others still
      farther north. What may have been the lot of the latter he could not tell,
      but amongst Bishop&rsquo;s slaves Peter Blood came and went freely, sleeping in
      their quarters, and their lot he knew to be a brutalizing misery. They
      toiled in the sugar plantations from sunrise to sunset, and if their
      labours flagged, there were the whips of the overseer and his men to
      quicken them. They went in rags, some almost naked; they dwelt in squalor,
      and they were ill-nourished on salted meat and maize dumplings&mdash;food
      which to many of them was for a season at least so nauseating that two of
      them sickened and died before Bishop remembered that their lives had a
      certain value in labour to him and yielded to Blood&rsquo;s intercessions for a
      better care of such as fell ill. To curb insubordination, one of them who
      had rebelled against Kent, the brutal overseer, was lashed to death by
      negroes under his comrades&rsquo; eyes, and another who had been so misguided as
      to run away into the woods was tracked, brought back, flogged, and then
      branded on the forehead with the letters &ldquo;F. T.,&rdquo; that all might know him
      for a fugitive traitor as long as he lived. Fortunately for him the poor
      fellow died as a consequence of the flogging.
    </p>
    <p>
      After that a dull, spiritless resignation settled down upon the remainder.
      The most mutinous were quelled, and accepted their unspeakable lot with
      the tragic fortitude of despair.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood alone, escaping these excessive sufferings, remained outwardly
      unchanged, whilst inwardly the only change in him was a daily deeper
      hatred of his kind, a daily deeper longing to escape from this place where
      man defiled so foully the lovely work of his Creator. It was a longing too
      vague to amount to a hope. Hope here was inadmissible. And yet he did not
      yield to despair. He set a mask of laughter on his saturnine countenance
      and went his way, treating the sick to the profit of Colonel Bishop, and
      encroaching further and further upon the preserves of the two other men of
      medicine in Bridgetown.
    </p>
    <p>
      Immune from the degrading punishments and privations of his
      fellow-convicts, he was enabled to keep his self-respect, and was treated
      without harshness even by the soulless planter to whom he had been sold.
      He owed it all to gout and megrims. He had won the esteem of Governor
      Steed, and&mdash;what is even more important&mdash;of Governor Steed&rsquo;s
      lady, whom he shamelessly and cynically flattered and humoured.
    </p>
    <p>
      Occasionally he saw Miss Bishop, and they seldom met but that she paused
      to hold him in conversation for some moments, evincing her interest in
      him. Himself, he was never disposed to linger. He was not, he told
      himself, to be deceived by her delicate exterior, her sapling grace, her
      easy, boyish ways and pleasant, boyish voice. In all his life&mdash;and it
      had been very varied&mdash;he had never met a man whom he accounted more
      beastly than her uncle, and he could not dissociate her from the man. She
      was his niece, of his own blood, and some of the vices of it, some of the
      remorseless cruelty of the wealthy planter must, he argued, inhabit that
      pleasant body of hers. He argued this very often to himself, as if
      answering and convincing some instinct that pleaded otherwise, and arguing
      it he avoided her when it was possible, and was frigidly civil when it was
      not.
    </p>
    <p>
      Justifiable as his reasoning was, plausible as it may seem, yet he would
      have done better to have trusted the instinct that was in conflict with
      it. Though the same blood ran in her veins as in those of Colonel Bishop,
      yet hers was free of the vices that tainted her uncle&rsquo;s, for these vices
      were not natural to that blood; they were, in his case, acquired. Her
      father, Tom Bishop&mdash;that same Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s brother&mdash;had been
      a kindly, chivalrous, gentle soul, who, broken-hearted by the early death
      of a young wife, had abandoned the Old World and sought an anodyne for his
      grief in the New. He had come out to the Antilles, bringing with him his
      little daughter, then five years of age, and had given himself up to the
      life of a planter. He had prospered from the first, as men sometimes will
      who care nothing for prosperity. Prospering, he had bethought him of his
      younger brother, a soldier at home reputed somewhat wild. He had advised
      him to come out to Barbados; and the advice, which at another season
      William Bishop might have scorned, reached him at a moment when his
      wildness was beginning to bear such fruit that a change of climate was
      desirable. William came, and was admitted by his generous brother to a
      partnership in the prosperous plantation. Some six years later, when
      Arabella was fifteen, her father died, leaving her in her uncle&rsquo;s
      guardianship. It was perhaps his one mistake. But the goodness of his own
      nature coloured his views of other men; moreover, himself, he had
      conducted the education of his daughter, giving her an independence of
      character upon which perhaps he counted unduly. As things were, there was
      little love between uncle and niece. But she was dutiful to him, and he
      was circumspect in his behaviour before her. All his life, and for all his
      wildness, he had gone in a certain awe of his brother, whose worth he had
      the wit to recognize; and now it was almost as if some of that awe was
      transferred to his brother&rsquo;s child, who was also, in a sense, his partner,
      although she took no active part in the business of the plantations.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood judged her&mdash;as we are all too prone to judge&mdash;upon
      insufficient knowledge.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was very soon to have cause to correct that judgment. One day towards
      the end of May, when the heat was beginning to grow oppressive, there
      crawled into Carlisle Bay a wounded, battered English ship, the Pride of
      Devon, her freeboard scarred and broken, her coach a gaping wreck, her
      mizzen so shot away that only a jagged stump remained to tell the place
      where it had stood. She had been in action off Martinique with two Spanish
      treasure ships, and although her captain swore that the Spaniards had
      beset him without provocation, it is difficult to avoid a suspicion that
      the encounter had been brought about quite otherwise. One of the Spaniards
      had fled from the combat, and if the Pride of Devon had not given chase it
      was probably because she was by then in no case to do so. The other had
      been sunk, but not before the English ship had transferred to her own hold
      a good deal of the treasure aboard the Spaniard. It was, in fact, one of
      those piratical affrays which were a perpetual source of trouble between
      the courts of St. James&rsquo;s and the Escurial, complaints emanating now from
      one and now from the other side.
    </p>
    <p>
      Steed, however, after the fashion of most Colonial governors, was willing
      enough to dull his wits to the extent of accepting the English seaman&rsquo;s
      story, disregarding any evidence that might belie it. He shared the hatred
      so richly deserved by arrogant, overbearing Spain that was common to men
      of every other nation from the Bahamas to the Main. Therefore he gave the
      Pride of Devon the shelter she sought in his harbour and every facility to
      careen and carry out repairs.
    </p>
    <p>
      But before it came to this, they fetched from her hold over a score of
      English seamen as battered and broken as the ship herself, and together
      with these some half-dozen Spaniards in like case, the only survivors of a
      boarding party from the Spanish galleon that had invaded the English ship
      and found itself unable to retreat. These wounded men were conveyed to a
      long shed on the wharf, and the medical skill of Bridgetown was summoned
      to their aid. Peter Blood was ordered to bear a hand in this work, and
      partly because he spoke Castilian&mdash;and he spoke it as fluently as his
      own native tongue&mdash;partly because of his inferior condition as a
      slave, he was given the Spaniards for his patients.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now Blood had no cause to love Spaniards. His two years in a Spanish
      prison and his subsequent campaigning in the Spanish Netherlands had shown
      him a side of the Spanish character which he had found anything but
      admirable. Nevertheless he performed his doctor&rsquo;s duties zealously and
      painstakingly, if emotionlessly, and even with a certain superficial
      friendliness towards each of his patients. These were so surprised at
      having their wounds healed instead of being summarily hanged that they
      manifested a docility very unusual in their kind. They were shunned,
      however, by all those charitably disposed inhabitants of Bridgetown who
      flocked to the improvised hospital with gifts of fruit and flowers and
      delicacies for the injured English seamen. Indeed, had the wishes of some
      of these inhabitants been regarded, the Spaniards would have been left to
      die like vermin, and of this Peter Blood had an example almost at the very
      outset.
    </p>
    <p>
      With the assistance of one of the negroes sent to the shed for the
      purpose, he was in the act of setting a broken leg, when a deep, gruff
      voice, that he had come to know and dislike as he had never disliked the
      voice of living man, abruptly challenged him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What are you doing there?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood did not look up from his task. There was not the need. He knew the
      voice, as I have said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am setting a broken leg,&rdquo; he answered, without pausing in his labours.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can see that, fool.&rdquo; A bulky body interposed between Peter Blood and
      the window. The half-naked man on the straw rolled his black eyes to stare
      up fearfully out of a clay-coloured face at this intruder. A knowledge of
      English was unnecessary to inform him that here came an enemy. The harsh,
      minatory note of that voice sufficiently expressed the fact. &ldquo;I can see
      that, fool; just as I can see what the rascal is. Who gave you leave to
      set Spanish legs?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am a doctor, Colonel Bishop. The man is wounded. It is not for me to
      discriminate. I keep to my trade.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you, by God! If you&rsquo;d done that, you wouldn&rsquo;t now be here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On the contrary, it is because I did it that I am here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye, I know that&rsquo;s your lying tale.&rdquo; The Colonel sneered; and then,
      observing Blood to continue his work unmoved, he grew really angry. &ldquo;Will
      you cease that, and attend to me when I am speaking?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood paused, but only for an instant. &ldquo;The man is in pain,&rdquo; he said
      shortly, and resumed his work.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In pain, is he? I hope he is, the damned piratical dog. But will you heed
      me, you insubordinate knave?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Colonel delivered himself in a roar, infuriated by what he conceived
      to be defiance, and defiance expressing itself in the most unruffled
      disregard of himself. His long bamboo cane was raised to strike. Peter
      Blood&rsquo;s blue eyes caught the flash of it, and he spoke quickly to arrest
      the blow.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not insubordinate, sir, whatever I may be. I am acting upon the express
      orders of Governor Steed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Colonel checked, his great face empurpling. His mouth fell open.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Governor Steed!&rdquo; he echoed. Then he lowered his cane, swung round, and
      without another word to Blood rolled away towards the other end of the
      shed where the Governor was standing at the moment.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood chuckled. But his triumph was dictated less by humanitarian
      considerations than by the reflection that he had baulked his brutal
      owner.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Spaniard, realizing that in this altercation, whatever its nature, the
      doctor had stood his friend, ventured in a muted voice to ask him what had
      happened. But the doctor shook his head in silence, and pursued his work.
      His ears were straining to catch the words now passing between Steed and
      Bishop. The Colonel was blustering and storming, the great bulk of him
      towering above the wizened little overdressed figure of the Governor. But
      the little fop was not to be browbeaten. His excellency was conscious that
      he had behind him the force of public opinion to support him. Some there
      might be, but they were not many, who held such ruthless views as Colonel
      Bishop. His excellency asserted his authority. It was by his orders that
      Blood had devoted himself to the wounded Spaniards, and his orders were to
      be carried out. There was no more to be said.
    </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop was of another opinion. In his view there was a great deal
      to be said. He said it, with great circumstance, loudly, vehemently,
      obscenely&mdash;for he could be fluently obscene when moved to anger.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You talk like a Spaniard, Colonel,&rdquo; said the Governor, and thus dealt the
      Colonel&rsquo;s pride a wound that was to smart resentfully for many a week. At
      the moment it struck him silent, and sent him stamping out of the shed in
      a rage for which he could find no words.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was two days later when the ladies of Bridgetown, the wives and
      daughters of her planters and merchants, paid their first visit of charity
      to the wharf, bringing their gifts to the wounded seamen.
    </p>
    <p>
      Again Peter Blood was there, ministering to the sufferers in his care,
      moving among those unfortunate Spaniards whom no one heeded. All the
      charity, all the gifts were for the members of the crew of the Pride of
      Devon. And this Peter Blood accounted natural enough. But rising suddenly
      from the re-dressing of a wound, a task in which he had been absorbed for
      some moments, he saw to his surprise that one lady, detached from the
      general throng, was placing some plantains and a bundle of succulent sugar
      cane on the cloak that served one of his patients for a coverlet. She was
      elegantly dressed in lavender silk and was followed by a half-naked negro
      carrying a basket.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood, stripped of his coat, the sleeves of his coarse shirt rolled
      to the elbow, and holding a bloody rag in his hand, stood at gaze a
      moment. The lady, turning now to confront him, her lips parting in a smile
      of recognition, was Arabella Bishop.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The man&rsquo;s a Spaniard,&rdquo; said he, in the tone of one who corrects a
      misapprehension, and also tinged never so faintly by something of the
      derision that was in his soul.
    </p>
    <p>
      The smile with which she had been greeting him withered on her lips. She
      frowned and stared at him a moment, with increasing haughtiness.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So I perceive. But he&rsquo;s a human being none the less,&rdquo; said she.
    </p>
    <p>
      That answer, and its implied rebuke, took him by surprise.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your uncle, the Colonel, is of a different opinion,&rdquo; said he, when he had
      recovered. &ldquo;He regards them as vermin to be left to languish and die of
      their festering wounds.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She caught the irony now more plainly in his voice. She continued to stare
      at him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why do you tell me this?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To warn you that you may be incurring the Colonel&rsquo;s displeasure. If he
      had had his way, I should never have been allowed to dress their wounds.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And you thought, of course, that I must be of my uncle&rsquo;s mind?&rdquo; There was
      a crispness about her voice, an ominous challenging sparkle in her hazel
      eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;d not willingly be rude to a lady even in my thoughts,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;But
      that you should bestow gifts on them, considering that if your uncle came
      to hear of it....&rdquo; He paused, leaving the sentence unfinished. &ldquo;Ah, well&mdash;there
      it is!&rdquo; he concluded.
    </p>
    <p>
      But the lady was not satisfied at all.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;First you impute to me inhumanity, and then cowardice. Faith! For a man
      who would not willingly be rude to a lady even in his thoughts, it&rsquo;s none
      so bad.&rdquo; Her boyish laugh trilled out, but the note of it jarred his ears
      this time.
    </p>
    <p>
      He saw her now, it seemed to him, for the first time, and saw how he had
      misjudged her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sure, now, how was I to guess that... that Colonel Bishop could have an
      angel for his niece?&rdquo; said he recklessly, for he was reckless as men often
      are in sudden penitence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You wouldn&rsquo;t, of course. I shouldn&rsquo;t think you often guess aright.&rdquo;
       Having withered him with that and her glance, she turned to her negro and
      the basket that he carried. From this she lifted now the fruits and
      delicacies with which it was laden, and piled them in such heaps upon the
      beds of the six Spaniards that by the time she had so served the last of
      them her basket was empty, and there was nothing left for her own
      fellow-countrymen. These, indeed, stood in no need of her bounty&mdash;as
      she no doubt observed&mdash;since they were being plentifully supplied by
      others.
    </p>
    <p>
      Having thus emptied her basket, she called her negro, and without another
      word or so much as another glance at Peter Blood, swept out of the place
      with her head high and chin thrust forward.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter watched her departure. Then he fetched a sigh.
    </p>
    <p>
      It startled him to discover that the thought that he had incurred her
      anger gave him concern. It could not have been so yesterday. It became so
      only since he had been vouchsafed this revelation of her true nature. &ldquo;Bad
      cess to it now, it serves me right. It seems I know nothing at all of
      human nature. But how the devil was I to guess that a family that can
      breed a devil like Colonel Bishop should also breed a saint like this?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0006" id="link2HCH0006">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER VI. PLANS OF ESCAPE
    </h2>
    <p>
      After that Arabella Bishop went daily to the shed on the wharf with gifts
      of fruit, and later of money and of wearing apparel for the Spanish
      prisoners. But she contrived so to time her visits that Peter Blood never
      again met her there. Also his own visits were growing shorter in a measure
      as his patients healed. That they all throve and returned to health under
      his care, whilst fully one third of the wounded in the care of Whacker and
      Bronson&mdash;the two other surgeons&mdash;died of their wounds, served to
      increase the reputation in which this rebel-convict stood in Bridgetown.
      It may have been no more than the fortune of war. But the townsfolk did
      not choose so to regard it. It led to a further dwindling of the practices
      of his free colleagues and a further increase of his own labours and his
      owner&rsquo;s profit. Whacker and Bronson laid their heads together to devise a
      scheme by which this intolerable state of things should be brought to an
      end. But that is to anticipate.
    </p>
    <p>
      One day, whether by accident or design, Peter Blood came striding down the
      wharf a full half-hour earlier than usual, and so met Miss Bishop just
      issuing from the shed. He doffed his hat and stood aside to give her
      passage. She took it, chin in the air, and eyes which disdained to look
      anywhere where the sight of him was possible.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Miss Arabella,&rdquo; said he, on a coaxing, pleading note.
    </p>
    <p>
      She grew conscious of his presence, and looked him over with an air that
      was faintly, mockingly searching.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;La!&rdquo; said she. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s the delicate-minded gentleman!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Peter groaned. &ldquo;Am I so hopelessly beyond forgiveness? I ask it very
      humbly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What condescension!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is cruel to mock me,&rdquo; said he, and adopted mock-humility. &ldquo;After all,
      I am but a slave. And you might be ill one of these days.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What, then?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It would be humiliating to send for me if you treat me like an enemy.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are not the only doctor in Bridgetown.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But I am the least dangerous.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She grew suddenly suspicious of him, aware that he was permitting himself
      to rally her, and in a measure she had already yielded to it. She
      stiffened, and looked him over again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You make too free, I think,&rdquo; she rebuked him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A doctor&rsquo;s privilege.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am not your patient. Please to remember it in future.&rdquo; And on that,
      unquestionably angry, she departed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now is she a vixen or am I a fool, or is it both?&rdquo; he asked the blue
      vault of heaven, and then went into the shed.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was to be a morning of excitements. As he was leaving an hour or so
      later, Whacker, the younger of the other two physicians, joined him&mdash;an
      unprecedented condescension this, for hitherto neither of them had
      addressed him beyond an occasional and surly &ldquo;good-day!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you are for Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s, I&rsquo;ll walk with you a little way, Doctor
      Blood,&rdquo; said he. He was a short, broad man of five-and-forty with
      pendulous cheeks and hard blue eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood was startled. But he dissembled it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am for Government House,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah! To be sure! The Governor&rsquo;s lady.&rdquo; And he laughed; or perhaps he
      sneered. Peter Blood was not quite certain. &ldquo;She encroaches a deal upon
      your time, I hear. Youth and good looks, Doctor Blood! Youth and good
      looks! They are inestimable advantages in our profession as in others&mdash;particularly
      where the ladies are concerned.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Peter stared at him. &ldquo;If you mean what you seem to mean, you had better
      say it to Governor Steed. It may amuse him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You surely misapprehend me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I hope so.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;re so very hot, now!&rdquo; The doctor linked his arm through Peter&rsquo;s. &ldquo;I
      protest I desire to be your friend&mdash;to serve you. Now, listen.&rdquo;
       Instinctively his voice grew lower. &ldquo;This slavery in which you find
      yourself must be singularly irksome to a man of parts such as yourself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What intuitions!&rdquo; cried sardonic Mr. Blood. But the doctor took him
      literally.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am no fool, my dear doctor. I know a man when I see one, and often I
      can tell his thoughts.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you can tell me mine, you&rsquo;ll persuade me of it,&rdquo; said Mr. Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      Dr. Whacker drew still closer to him as they stepped along the wharf. He
      lowered his voice to a still more confidential tone. His hard blue eyes
      peered up into the swart, sardonic face of his companion, who was a head
      taller than himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How often have I not seen you staring out over the sea, your soul in your
      eyes! Don&rsquo;t I know what you are thinking? If you could escape from this
      hell of slavery, you could exercise the profession of which you are an
      ornament as a free man with pleasure and profit to yourself. The world is
      large. There are many nations besides England where a man of your parts
      would be warmly welcomed. There are many colonies besides these English
      ones.&rdquo; Lower still came the voice until it was no more than a whisper. Yet
      there was no one within earshot. &ldquo;It is none so far now to the Dutch
      settlement of Curacao. At this time of the year the voyage may safely be
      undertaken in a light craft. And Curacao need be no more than a
      stepping-stone to the great world, which would lie open to you once you
      were delivered from this bondage.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Dr. Whacker ceased. He was pale and a little out of breath. But his hard
      eyes continued to study his impassive companion.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well?&rdquo; he said alter a pause. &ldquo;What do you say to that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Yet Blood did not immediately answer. His mind was heaving in tumult, and
      he was striving to calm it that he might take a proper survey of this
      thing flung into it to create so monstrous a disturbance. He began where
      another might have ended.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have no money. And for that a handsome sum would be necessary.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did I not say that I desired to be your friend?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why?&rdquo; asked Peter Blood at point-blank range.
    </p>
    <p>
      But he never heeded the answer. Whilst Dr. Whacker was professing that his
      heart bled for a brother doctor languishing in slavery, denied the
      opportunity which his gifts entitled him to make for himself, Peter Blood
      pounced like a hawk upon the obvious truth. Whacker and his colleague
      desired to be rid of one who threatened to ruin them. Sluggishness of
      decision was never a fault of Blood&rsquo;s. He leapt where another crawled. And
      so this thought of evasion never entertained until planted there now by
      Dr. Whacker sprouted into instant growth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see, I see,&rdquo; he said, whilst his companion was still talking,
      explaining, and to save Dr. Whacker&rsquo;s face he played the hypocrite. &ldquo;It is
      very noble in you&mdash;very brotherly, as between men of medicine. It is
      what I myself should wish to do in like case.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The hard eyes flashed, the husky voice grew tremulous as the other asked
      almost too eagerly:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You agree, then? You agree?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Agree?&rdquo; Blood laughed. &ldquo;If I should be caught and brought back, they&rsquo;d
      clip my wings and brand me for life.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Surely the thing is worth a little risk?&rdquo; More tremulous than ever was
      the tempter&rsquo;s voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Surely,&rdquo; Blood agreed. &ldquo;But it asks more than courage. It asks money. A
      sloop might be bought for twenty pounds, perhaps.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It shall be forthcoming. It shall be a loan, which you shall repay us&mdash;repay
      me, when you can.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      That betraying &ldquo;us&rdquo; so hastily retrieved completed Blood&rsquo;s understanding.
      The other doctor was also in the business.
    </p>
    <p>
      They were approaching the peopled part of the mole. Quickly, but
      eloquently, Blood expressed his thanks, where he knew that no thanks were
      due.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We will talk of this again, sir&mdash;to-morrow,&rdquo; he concluded. &ldquo;You have
      opened for me the gates of hope.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In that at least he tittered no more than the bare truth, and expressed it
      very baldly. It was, indeed, as if a door had been suddenly flung open to
      the sunlight for escape from a dark prison in which a man had thought to
      spend his life.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was in haste now to be alone, to straighten out his agitated mind and
      plan coherently what was to be done. Also he must consult another. Already
      he had hit upon that other. For such a voyage a navigator would be
      necessary, and a navigator was ready to his hand in Jeremy Pitt. The first
      thing was to take counsel with the young shipmaster, who must be
      associated with him in this business if it were to be undertaken. All that
      day his mind was in turmoil with this new hope, and he was sick with
      impatience for night and a chance to discuss the matter with his chosen
      partner. As a result Blood was betimes that evening in the spacious
      stockade that enclosed the huts of the slaves together with the big white
      house of the overseer, and he found an opportunity of a few words with
      Pitt, unobserved by the others.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To-night when all are asleep, come to my cabin. I have something to say
      to you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The young man stared at him, roused by Blood&rsquo;s pregnant tone out of the
      mental lethargy into which he had of late been lapsing as a result of the
      dehumanizing life he lived. Then he nodded understanding and assent, and
      they moved apart.
    </p>
    <p>
      The six months of plantation life in Barbados had made an almost tragic
      mark upon the young seaman. His erstwhile bright alertness was all
      departed. His face was growing vacuous, his eyes were dull and
      lack-lustre, and he moved in a cringing, furtive manner, like an
      over-beaten dog. He had survived the ill-nourishment, the excessive work
      on the sugar plantation under a pitiless sun, the lashes of the overseer&rsquo;s
      whip when his labours flagged, and the deadly, unrelieved animal life to
      which he was condemned. But the price he was paying for survival was the
      usual price. He was in danger of becoming no better than an animal, of
      sinking to the level of the negroes who sometimes toiled beside him. The
      man, however, was still there, not yet dormant, but merely torpid from a
      surfeit of despair; and the man in him promptly shook off that torpidity
      and awoke at the first words Blood spoke to him that night&mdash;awoke and
      wept.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Escape?&rdquo; he panted. &ldquo;O God!&rdquo; He took his head in his hands, and fell to
      sobbing like a child.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sh! Steady now! Steady!&rdquo; Blood admonished him in a whisper, alarmed by
      the lad&rsquo;s blubbering. He crossed to Pitt&rsquo;s side, and set a restraining
      hand upon his shoulder. &ldquo;For God&rsquo;s sake, command yourself. If we&rsquo;re
      overheard we shall both be flogged for this.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Among the privileges enjoyed by Blood was that of a hut to himself, and
      they were alone in this. But, after all, it was built of wattles thinly
      plastered with mud, and its door was composed of bamboos, through which
      sound passed very easily. Though the stockade was locked for the night,
      and all within it asleep by now&mdash;it was after midnight&mdash;yet a
      prowling overseer was not impossible, and a sound of voices must lead to
      discovery. Pitt realized this, and controlled his outburst of emotion.
    </p>
    <p>
      Sitting close thereafter they talked in whispers for an hour or more, and
      all the while those dulled wits of Pitt&rsquo;s were sharpening themselves anew
      upon this precious whetstone of hope. They would need to recruit others
      into their enterprise, a half-dozen at least, a half-score if possible,
      but no more than that. They must pick the best out of that score of
      survivors of the Monmouth men that Colonel Bishop had acquired. Men who
      understood the sea were desirable. But of these there were only two in
      that unfortunate gang, and their knowledge was none too full. They were
      Hagthorpe, a gentleman who had served in the Royal Navy, and Nicholas
      Dyke, who had been a petty officer in the late king&rsquo;s time, and there was
      another who had been a gunner, a man named Ogle.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was agreed before they parted that Pitt should begin with these three
      and then proceed to recruit some six or eight others. He was to move with
      the utmost caution, sounding his men very carefully before making anything
      in the nature of a disclosure, and even then avoid rendering that
      disclosure so full that its betrayal might frustrate the plans which as
      yet had to be worked out in detail. Labouring with them in the
      plantations, Pitt would not want for opportunities of broaching the matter
      to his fellow-slaves.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Caution above everything,&rdquo; was Blood&rsquo;s last recommendation to him at
      parting. &ldquo;Who goes slowly, goes safely, as the Italians have it. And
      remember that if you betray yourself, you ruin all, for you are the only
      navigator amongst us, and without you there is no escaping.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Pitt reassured him, and slunk off back to his own hut and the straw that
      served him for a bed.
    </p>
    <p>
      Coming next morning to the wharf, Blood found Dr. Whacker in a generous
      mood. Having slept on the matter, he was prepared to advance the convict
      any sum up to thirty pounds that would enable him to acquire a boat
      capable of taking him away from the settlement. Blood expressed his thanks
      becomingly, betraying no sign that he saw clearly into the true reason of
      the other&rsquo;s munificence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not money I&rsquo;ll require,&rdquo; said he, &ldquo;but the boat itself. For who will
      be selling me a boat and incurring the penalties in Governor Steed&rsquo;s
      proclamation? Ye&rsquo;ll have read it, no doubt?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Dr. Whacker&rsquo;s heavy face grew overcast. Thoughtfully he rubbed his chin.
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve read it&mdash;yes. And I dare not procure the boat for you. It would
      be discovered. It must be. And the penalty is a fine of two hundred pounds
      besides imprisonment. It would ruin me. You&rsquo;ll see that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The high hopes in Blood&rsquo;s soul, began to shrink. And the shadow of his
      despair overcast his face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But then...&rdquo; he faltered. &ldquo;There is nothing to be done.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nay, nay: things are not so desperate.&rdquo; Dr. Whacker smiled a little with
      tight lips. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve thought of it. You will see that the man who buys the
      boat must be one of those who goes with you&mdash;so that he is not here
      to answer questions afterwards.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But who is to go with me save men in my own case? What I cannot do, they
      cannot.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There are others detained on the island besides slaves. There are several
      who are here for debt, and would be glad enough to spread their wings.
      There&rsquo;s a fellow Nuttall, now, who follows the trade of a shipwright, whom
      I happen to know would welcome such a chance as you might afford him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But how should a debtor come with money to buy a boat? The question will
      be asked.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To be sure it will. But if you contrive shrewdly, you&rsquo;ll all be gone
      before that happens.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood nodded understanding, and the doctor, setting a hand upon his
      sleeve, unfolded the scheme he had conceived.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall have the money from me at once. Having received it, you&rsquo;ll
      forget that it was I who supplied it to you. You have friends in England&mdash;relatives,
      perhaps&mdash;who sent it out to you through the agency of one of your
      Bridgetown patients, whose name as a man of honour you will on no account
      divulge lest you bring trouble upon him. That is your tale if there are
      questions.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He paused, looking hard at Blood. Blood nodded understanding and assent.
      Relieved, the doctor continued:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But there should be no questions if you go carefully to work. You concert
      matters with Nuttall. You enlist him as one of your companions and a
      shipwright should be a very useful member of your crew. You engage him to
      discover a likely sloop whose owner is disposed to sell. Then let your
      preparations all be made before the purchase is effected, so that your
      escape may follow instantly upon it before the inevitable questions come
      to be asked. You take me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      So well did Blood take him that within an hour he contrived to see
      Nuttall, and found the fellow as disposed to the business as Dr. Whacker
      had predicted. When he left the shipwright, it was agreed that Nuttall
      should seek the boat required, for which Blood would at once produce the
      money.
    </p>
    <p>
      The quest took longer than was expected by Blood, who waited impatiently
      with the doctor&rsquo;s gold concealed about his person. But at the end of some
      three weeks, Nuttall&mdash;whom he was now meeting daily&mdash;informed
      him that he had found a serviceable wherry, and that its owner was
      disposed to sell it for twenty-two pounds. That evening, on the beach,
      remote from all eyes, Peter Blood handed that sum to his new associate,
      and Nuttall went off with instructions to complete the purchase late on
      the following day. He was to bring the boat to the wharf, where under
      cover of night Blood and his fellow-convicts would join him and make off.
    </p>
    <p>
      Everything was ready. In the shed, from which all the wounded men had now
      been removed and which had since remained untenanted, Nuttall had
      concealed the necessary stores: a hundredweight of bread, a quantity of
      cheese, a cask of water and some few bottles of Canary, a compass,
      quadrant, chart, half-hour glass, log and line, a tarpaulin, some
      carpenter&rsquo;s tools, and a lantern and candles. And in the stockade, all was
      likewise in readiness. Hagthorpe, Dyke, and Ogle had agreed to join the
      venture, and eight others had been carefully recruited. In Pitt&rsquo;s hut,
      which he shared with five other rebels-convict, all of whom were to join
      in this bid for liberty, a ladder had been constructed in secret during
      those nights of waiting. With this they were to surmount the stockade and
      gain the open. The risk of detection, so that they made little noise, was
      negligible. Beyond locking them all into that stockade at night, there was
      no great precaution taken. Where, after all, could any so foolish as to
      attempt escape hope to conceal himself in that island? The chief risk lay
      in discovery by those of their companions who were to be left behind. It
      was because of these that they must go cautiously and in silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      The day that was to have been their last in Barbados was a day of hope and
      anxiety to the twelve associates in that enterprise, no less than to
      Nuttall in the town below.
    </p>
    <p>
      Towards sunset, having seen Nuttall depart to purchase and fetch the sloop
      to the prearranged moorings at the wharf, Peter Blood came sauntering
      towards the stockade, just as the slaves were being driven in from the
      fields. He stood aside at the entrance to let them pass, and beyond the
      message of hope flashed by his eyes, he held no communication with them.
    </p>
    <p>
      He entered the stockade in their wake, and as they broke their ranks to
      seek their various respective huts, he beheld Colonel Bishop in talk with
      Kent, the overseer. The pair were standing by the stocks, planted in the
      middle of that green space for the punishment of offending slaves.
    </p>
    <p>
      As he advanced, Bishop turned to regard him, scowling. &ldquo;Where have you
      been this while?&rdquo; he bawled, and although a minatory note was normal to
      the Colonel&rsquo;s voice, yet Blood felt his heart tightening apprehensively.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve been at my work in the town,&rdquo; he answered. &ldquo;Mrs. Patch has a fever
      and Mr. Dekker has sprained his ankle.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I sent for you to Dekker&rsquo;s, and you were not there. You are given to
      idling, my fine fellow. We shall have to quicken you one of these days
      unless you cease from abusing the liberty you enjoy. D&rsquo;ye forget that
      ye&rsquo;re a rebel convict?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am not given the chance,&rdquo; said Blood, who never could learn to curb his
      tongue.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By God! Will you be pert with me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Remembering all that was at stake, growing suddenly conscious that from
      the huts surrounding the enclosure anxious ears were listening, he
      instantly practised an unusual submission.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not pert, sir. I... I am sorry I should have been sought....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye, and you&rsquo;ll be sorrier yet. There&rsquo;s the Governor with an attack of
      gout, screaming like a wounded horse, and you nowhere to be found. Be off,
      man&mdash;away with you at speed to Government House! You&rsquo;re awaited, I
      tell you. Best lend him a horse, Kent, or the lout&rsquo;ll be all night getting
      there.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They bustled him away, choking almost from a reluctance that he dared not
      show. The thing was unfortunate; but after all not beyond remedy. The
      escape was set for midnight, and he should easily be back by then. He
      mounted the horse that Kent procured him, intending to make all haste.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How shall I reenter the stockade, sir?&rdquo; he enquired at parting.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll not reenter it,&rdquo; said Bishop. &ldquo;When they&rsquo;ve done with you at
      Government House, they may find a kennel for you there until morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood&rsquo;s heart sank like a stone through water.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But...&rdquo; he began.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Be off, I say. Will you stand there talking until dark? His excellency is
      waiting for you.&rdquo; And with his cane Colonel Bishop slashed the horse&rsquo;s
      quarters so brutally that the beast bounded forward all but unseating her
      rider.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood went off in a state of mind bordering on despair. And there
      was occasion for it. A postponement of the escape at least until to-morrow
      night was necessary now, and postponement must mean the discovery of
      Nuttall&rsquo;s transaction and the asking of questions it would be difficult to
      answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was in his mind to slink back in the night, once his work at Government
      House were done, and from the outside of the stockade make known to Pitt
      and the others his presence, and so have them join him that their project
      might still be carried out. But in this he reckoned without the Governor,
      whom he found really in the thrall of a severe attack of gout, and almost
      as severe an attack of temper nourished by Blood&rsquo;s delay.
    </p>
    <p>
      The doctor was kept in constant attendance upon him until long after
      midnight, when at last he was able to ease the sufferer a little by a
      bleeding. Thereupon he would have withdrawn. But Steed would not hear of
      it. Blood must sleep in his own chamber to be at hand in case of need. It
      was as if Fate made sport of him. For that night at least the escape must
      be definitely abandoned.
    </p>
    <p>
      Not until the early hours of the morning did Peter Blood succeed in making
      a temporary escape from Government House on the ground that he required
      certain medicaments which he must, himself, procure from the apothecary.
    </p>
    <p>
      On that pretext, he made an excursion into the awakening town, and went
      straight to Nuttall, whom he found in a state of livid panic. The
      unfortunate debtor, who had sat up waiting through the night, conceived
      that all was discovered and that his own ruin would be involved. Peter
      Blood quieted his fears.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It will be for to-night instead,&rdquo; he said, with more assurance than he
      felt, &ldquo;if I have to bleed the Governor to death. Be ready as last night.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But if there are questions meanwhile?&rdquo; bleated Nuttall. He was a thin,
      pale, small-featured, man with weak eyes that now blinked desperately.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Answer as best you can. Use your wits, man. I can stay no longer.&rdquo; And
      Peter went off to the apothecary for his pretexted drugs.
    </p>
    <p>
      Within an hour of his going came an officer of the Secretary&rsquo;s to
      Nuttall&rsquo;s miserable hovel. The seller of the boat had&mdash;as by law
      required since the coming of the rebels-convict&mdash;duly reported the
      sale at the Secretary&rsquo;s office, so that he might obtain the reimbursement
      of the ten-pound surety into which every keeper of a small boat was
      compelled to enter. The Secretary&rsquo;s office postponed this reimbursement
      until it should have obtained confirmation of the transaction.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We are informed that you have bought a wherry from Mr. Robert Farrell,&rdquo;
       said the officer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is so,&rdquo; said Nuttall, who conceived that for him this was the end of
      the world.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are in no haste, it seems, to declare the same at the Secretary&rsquo;s
      office.&rdquo; The emissary had a proper bureaucratic haughtiness.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nuttall&rsquo;s weak eyes blinked at a redoubled rate.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To... to declare it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye know it&rsquo;s the law.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I... I didn&rsquo;t, may it please you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But it&rsquo;s in the proclamation published last January.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I... I can&rsquo;t read, sir. I... I didn&rsquo;t know.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Faugh!&rdquo; The messenger withered him with his disdain.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, now you&rsquo;re informed. See to it that you are at the Secretary&rsquo;s
      office before noon with the ten pounds surety into which you are obliged
      to enter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The pompous officer departed, leaving Nuttall in a cold perspiration
      despite the heat of the morning. He was thankful that the fellow had not
      asked the question he most dreaded, which was how he, a debtor, should
      come by the money to buy a wherry. But this he knew was only a respite.
      The question would presently be asked of a certainty, and then hell would
      open for him. He cursed the hour in which he had been such a fool as to
      listen to Peter Blood&rsquo;s chatter of escape. He thought it very likely that
      the whole plot would be discovered, and that he would probably be hanged,
      or at least branded and sold into slavery like those other damned
      rebels-convict, with whom he had been so mad as to associate himself. If
      only he had the ten pounds for this infernal surety, which until this
      moment had never entered into their calculations, it was possible that the
      thing might be done quickly and questions postponed until later. As the
      Secretary&rsquo;s messenger had overlooked the fact that he was a debtor, so
      might the others at the Secretary&rsquo;s office, at least for a day or two; and
      in that time he would, he hoped, be beyond the reach of their questions.
      But in the meantime what was to be done about this money? And it was to be
      found before noon!
    </p>
    <p>
      Nuttall snatched up his hat, and went out in quest of Peter Blood. But
      where look for him? Wandering aimlessly up the irregular, unpaved street,
      he ventured to enquire of one or two if they had seen Dr. Blood that
      morning. He affected to be feeling none so well, and indeed his appearance
      bore out the deception. None could give him information; and since Blood
      had never told him of Whacker&rsquo;s share in this business, he walked in his
      unhappy ignorance past the door of the one man in Barbados who would
      eagerly have saved him in this extremity.
    </p>
    <p>
      Finally he determined to go up to Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s plantation. Probably
      Blood would be there. If he were not, Nuttall would find Pitt, and leave a
      message with him. He was acquainted with Pitt and knew of Pitt&rsquo;s share in
      this business. His pretext for seeking Blood must still be that he needed
      medical assistance.
    </p>
    <p>
      And at the same time that he set out, insensitive in his anxiety to the
      broiling heat, to climb the heights to the north of the town, Blood was
      setting out from Government House at last, having so far eased the
      Governor&rsquo;s condition as to be permitted to depart. Being mounted, he
      would, but for an unexpected delay, have reached the stockade ahead of
      Nuttall, in which case several unhappy events might have been averted. The
      unexpected delay was occasioned by Miss Arabella Bishop.
    </p>
    <p>
      They met at the gate of the luxuriant garden of Government House, and Miss
      Bishop, herself mounted, stared to see Peter Blood on horseback. It
      happened that he was in good spirits. The fact that the Governor&rsquo;s
      condition had so far improved as to restore him his freedom of movement
      had sufficed to remove the depression under which he had been labouring
      for the past twelve hours and more. In its rebound the mercury of his mood
      had shot higher far than present circumstances warranted. He was disposed
      to be optimistic. What had failed last night would certainly not fail
      again to-night. What was a day, after all? The Secretary&rsquo;s office might be
      troublesome, but not really troublesome for another twenty-four hours at
      least; and by then they would be well away.
    </p>
    <p>
      This joyous confidence of his was his first misfortune. The next was that
      his good spirits were also shared by Miss Bishop, and that she bore no
      rancour. The two things conjoined to make the delay that in its
      consequences was so deplorable.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-morning, sir,&rdquo; she hailed him pleasantly. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s close upon a month
      since last I saw you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Twenty-one days to the hour,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve counted them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I vow I was beginning to believe you dead.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have to thank you for the wreath.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The wreath?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To deck my grave,&rdquo; he explained.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Must you ever be rallying?&rdquo; she wondered, and looked at him gravely,
      remembering that it was his rallying on the last occasion had driven her
      away in dudgeon.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A man must sometimes laugh at himself or go mad,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;Few realize
      it. That is why there are so many madmen in the world.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You may laugh at yourself all you will, sir. But sometimes I think you
      laugh at me, which is not civil.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then, faith, you&rsquo;re wrong. I laugh only at the comic, and you are not
      comic at all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What am I, then?&rdquo; she asked him, laughing.
    </p>
    <p>
      A moment he pondered her, so fair and fresh to behold, so entirely
      maidenly and yet so entirely frank and unabashed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;the niece of the man who owns me his slave.&rdquo; But he
      spoke lightly. So lightly that she was encouraged to insistence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nay, sir, that is an evasion. You shall answer me truthfully this
      morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Truthfully? To answer you at all is a labour. But to answer truthfully!
      Oh, well, now, I should say of you that he&rsquo;ll be lucky who counts you his
      friend.&rdquo; It was in his mind to add more. But he left it there.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s mighty civil,&rdquo; said she. &ldquo;You&rsquo;ve a nice taste in compliments, Mr.
      Blood. Another in your place....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Faith, now, don&rsquo;t I know what another would have said? Don&rsquo;t I know my
      fellow-man at all?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sometimes I think you do, and sometimes I think you don&rsquo;t. Anyway, you
      don&rsquo;t know your fellow-woman. There was that affair of the Spaniards.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will ye never forget it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Never.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Bad cess to your memory. Is there no good in me at all that you could be
      dwelling on instead?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, several things.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For instance, now?&rdquo; He was almost eager.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You speak excellent Spanish.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is that all?&rdquo; He sank back into dismay.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where did you learn it? Have you been in Spain?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That I have. I was two years in a Spanish prison.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In prison?&rdquo; Her tone suggested apprehensions in which he had no desire to
      leave her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As a prisoner of war,&rdquo; he explained. &ldquo;I was taken fighting with the
      French&mdash;in French service, that is.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But you&rsquo;re a doctor!&rdquo; she cried.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s merely a diversion, I think. By trade I am a soldier&mdash;at
      least, it&rsquo;s a trade I followed for ten years. It brought me no great gear,
      but it served me better than medicine, which, as you may observe, has
      brought me into slavery. I&rsquo;m thinking it&rsquo;s more pleasing in the sight of
      Heaven to kill men than to heal them. Sure it must be.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But how came you to be a soldier, and to serve the French?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am Irish, you see, and I studied medicine. Therefore&mdash;since it&rsquo;s a
      perverse nation we are&mdash;.... Oh, but it&rsquo;s a long story, and the
      Colonel will be expecting my return.&rdquo; She was not in that way to be
      defrauded of her entertainment. If he would wait a moment they would ride
      back together. She had but come to enquire of the Governor&rsquo;s health at her
      uncle&rsquo;s request.
    </p>
    <p>
      So he waited, and so they rode back together to Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s house.
      They rode very slowly, at a walking pace, and some whom they passed
      marvelled to see the doctor-slave on such apparently intimate terms with
      his owner&rsquo;s niece. One or two may have promised themselves that they would
      drop a hint to the Colonel. But the two rode oblivious of all others in
      the world that morning. He was telling her the story of his early
      turbulent days, and at the end of it he dwelt more fully than hitherto
      upon the manner of his arrest and trial.
    </p>
    <p>
      The tale was barely done when they drew up at the Colonel&rsquo;s door, and
      dismounted, Peter Blood surrendering his nag to one of the negro grooms,
      who informed them that the Colonel was from home at the moment.
    </p>
    <p>
      Even then they lingered a moment, she detaining him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sorry, Mr. Blood, that I did not know before,&rdquo; she said, and there
      was a suspicion of moisture in those clear hazel eyes. With a compelling
      friendliness she held out her hand to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why, what difference could it have made?&rdquo; he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Some, I think. You have been very hardly used by Fate.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Och, now....&rdquo; He paused. His keen sapphire eyes considered her steadily a
      moment from under his level black brows. &ldquo;It might have been worse,&rdquo; he
      said, with a significance which brought a tinge of colour to her cheeks
      and a flutter to her eyelids.
    </p>
    <p>
      He stooped to kiss her hand before releasing it, and she did not deny him.
      Then he turned and strode off towards the stockade a half-mile away, and a
      vision of her face went with him, tinted with a rising blush and a sudden
      unusual shyness. He forgot in that little moment that he was a
      rebel-convict with ten years of slavery before him; he forgot that he had
      planned an escape, which was to be carried into effect that night; forgot
      even the peril of discovery which as a result of the Governor&rsquo;s gout now
      overhung him.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0007" id="link2HCH0007">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER VII. PIRATES
    </h2>
    <p>
      Mr. James Nuttall made all speed, regardless of the heat, in his journey
      from Bridgetown to Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s plantation, and if ever man was built
      for speed in a hot climate that man was Mr. James Nuttall, with his short,
      thin body, and his long, fleshless legs. So withered was he that it was
      hard to believe there were any juices left in him, yet juices there must
      have been, for he was sweating violently by the time he reached the
      stockade.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the entrance he almost ran into the overseer Kent, a squat, bow-legged
      animal with the arms of a Hercules and the jowl of a bulldog.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am seeking Doctor Blood,&rdquo; he announced breathlessly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are in a rare haste,&rdquo; growled Kent. &ldquo;What the devil is it? Twins?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Eh? Oh! Nay, nay. I&rsquo;m not married, sir. It&rsquo;s a cousin of mine, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He is taken bad, sir,&rdquo; Nuttall lied promptly upon the cue that Kent
      himself had afforded him. &ldquo;Is the doctor here?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s his hut yonder.&rdquo; Kent pointed carelessly. &ldquo;If he&rsquo;s not there,
      he&rsquo;ll be somewhere else.&rdquo; And he took himself off. He was a surly,
      ungracious beast at all times, readier with the lash of his whip than with
      his tongue.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nuttall watched him go with satisfaction, and even noted the direction
      that he took. Then he plunged into the enclosure, to verify in
      mortification that Dr. Blood was not at home. A man of sense might have
      sat down and waited, judging that to be the quickest and surest way in the
      end. But Nuttall had no sense. He flung out of the stockade again,
      hesitated a moment as to which direction he should take, and finally
      decided to go any way but the way that Kent had gone. He sped across the
      parched savannah towards the sugar plantation which stood solid as a
      rampart and gleaming golden in the dazzling June sunshine. Avenues
      intersected the great blocks of ripening amber cane. In the distance down
      one of these he espied some slaves at work. Nuttall entered the avenue and
      advanced upon them. They eyed him dully, as he passed them. Pitt was not
      of their number, and he dared not ask for him. He continued his search for
      best part of an hour, up one of those lanes and then down another. Once an
      overseer challenged him, demanding to know his business. He was looking,
      he said, for Dr. Blood. His cousin was taken ill. The overseer bade him go
      to the devil, and get out of the plantation. Blood was not there. If he
      was anywhere he would be in his hut in the stockade.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nuttall passed on, upon the understanding that he would go. But he went in
      the wrong direction; he went on towards the side of the plantation
      farthest from the stockade, towards the dense woods that fringed it there.
      The overseer was too contemptuous and perhaps too languid in the stifling
      heat of approaching noontide to correct his course.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nuttall blundered to the end of the avenue, and round the corner of it,
      and there ran into Pitt, alone, toiling with a wooden spade upon an
      irrigation channel. A pair of cotton drawers, loose and ragged, clothed
      him from waist to knee; above and below he was naked, save for a broad hat
      of plaited straw that sheltered his unkempt golden head from the rays of
      the tropical sun. At sight of him Nuttall returned thanks aloud to his
      Maker. Pitt stared at him, and the shipwright poured out his dismal news
      in a dismal tone. The sum of it was that he must have ten pounds from
      Blood that very morning or they were all undone. And all he got for his
      pains and his sweat was the condemnation of Jeremy Pitt.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Damn you for a fool!&rdquo; said the slave. &ldquo;If it&rsquo;s Blood you&rsquo;re seeking, why
      are you wasting your time here?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t find him,&rdquo; bleated Nuttall. He was indignant at his reception. He
      forgot the jangled state of the other&rsquo;s nerves after a night of anxious
      wakefulness ending in a dawn of despair. &ldquo;I thought that you....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You thought that I could drop my spade and go and seek him for you? Is
      that what you thought? My God! that our lives should depend upon such a
      dummerhead. While you waste your time here, the hours are passing! And if
      an overseer should catch you talking to me? How&rsquo;ll you explain it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For a moment Nuttall was bereft of speech by such ingratitude. Then he
      exploded.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I would to Heaven I had never had no hand in this affair. I would so! I
      wish that....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      What else he wished was never known, for at that moment round the block of
      cane came a big man in biscuit-coloured taffetas followed by two negroes
      in cotton drawers who were armed with cutlasses. He was not ten yards
      away, but his approach over the soft, yielding marl had been unheard.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Nuttall looked wildly this way and that a moment, then bolted like a
      rabbit for the woods, thus doing the most foolish and betraying thing that
      in the circumstances it was possible for him to do. Pitt groaned and stood
      still, leaning upon his spade.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hi, there! Stop!&rdquo; bawled Colonel Bishop after the fugitive, and added
      horrible threats tricked out with some rhetorical indecencies.
    </p>
    <p>
      But the fugitive held amain, and never so much as turned his head. It was
      his only remaining hope that Colonel Bishop might not have seen his face;
      for the power and influence of Colonel Bishop was quite sufficient to hang
      any man whom he thought would be better dead.
    </p>
    <p>
      Not until the runagate had vanished into the scrub did the planter
      sufficiently recover from his indignant amazement to remember the two
      negroes who followed at his heels like a brace of hounds. It was a
      bodyguard without which he never moved in his plantations since a slave
      had made an attack upon him and all but strangled him a couple of years
      ago.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;After him, you black swine!&rdquo; he roared at them. But as they started he
      checked them. &ldquo;Wait! Get to heel, damn you!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It occurred to him that to catch and deal with the fellow there was not
      the need to go after him, and perhaps spend the day hunting him in that
      cursed wood. There was Pitt here ready to his hand, and Pitt should tell
      him the identity of his bashful friend, and also the subject of that close
      and secret talk he had disturbed. Pitt might, of course, be reluctant. So
      much the worse for Pitt. The ingenious Colonel Bishop knew a dozen ways&mdash;some
      of them quite diverting&mdash;of conquering stubbornness in these convict
      dogs.
    </p>
    <p>
      He turned now upon the slave a countenance that was inflamed by heat
      internal and external, and a pair of heady eyes that were alight with
      cruel intelligence. He stepped forward swinging his light bamboo cane.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who was that runagate?&rdquo; he asked with terrible suavity. Leaning over on
      his spade, Jeremy Pitt hung his head a little, and shifted uncomfortably
      on his bare feet. Vainly he groped for an answer in a mind that could do
      nothing but curse the idiocy of Mr. James Nuttall.
    </p>
    <p>
      The planter&rsquo;s bamboo cane fell on the lad&rsquo;s naked shoulders with stinging
      force.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Answer me, you dog! What&rsquo;s his name?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Jeremy looked at the burly planter out of sullen, almost defiant eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know,&rdquo; he said, and in his voice there was a faint note at least
      of the defiance aroused in him by a blow which he dared not, for his
      life&rsquo;s sake, return. His body had remained unyielding under it, but the
      spirit within writhed now in torment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t know? Well, here&rsquo;s to quicken your wits.&rdquo; Again the cane
      descended. &ldquo;Have you thought of his name yet?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have not.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Stubborn, eh?&rdquo; For a moment the Colonel leered. Then his passion mastered
      him. &ldquo;&lsquo;Swounds! You impudent dog! D&rsquo;you trifle with me? D&rsquo;you think I&rsquo;m to
      be mocked?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Pitt shrugged, shifted sideways on his feet again, and settled into dogged
      silence. Few things are more provocative; and Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s temper was
      never one that required much provocation. Brute fury now awoke in him.
      Fiercely now he lashed those defenceless shoulders, accompanying each blow
      by blasphemy and foul abuse, until, stung beyond endurance, the lingering
      embers of his manhood fanned into momentary flame, Pitt sprang upon his
      tormentor.
    </p>
    <p>
      But as he sprang, so also sprang the watchful blacks. Muscular bronze arms
      coiled crushingly about the frail white body, and in a moment the
      unfortunate slave stood powerless, his wrists pinioned behind him in a
      leathern thong.
    </p>
    <p>
      Breathing hard, his face mottled, Bishop pondered him a moment. Then:
      &ldquo;Fetch him along,&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      Down the long avenue between those golden walls of cane standing some
      eight feet high, the wretched Pitt was thrust by his black captors in the
      Colonel&rsquo;s wake, stared at with fearful eyes by his fellow-slaves at work
      there. Despair went with him. What torments might immediately await him he
      cared little, horrible though he knew they would be. The real source of
      his mental anguish lay in the conviction that the elaborately planned
      escape from this unutterable hell was frustrated now in the very moment of
      execution.
    </p>
    <p>
      They came out upon the green plateau and headed for the stockade and the
      overseer&rsquo;s white house. Pitt&rsquo;s eyes looked out over Carlisle Bay, of which
      this plateau commanded a clear view from the fort on one side to the long
      sheds of the wharf on the other. Along this wharf a few shallow boats were
      moored, and Pitt caught himself wondering which of these was the wherry in
      which with a little luck they might have been now at sea. Out over that
      sea his glance ranged miserably.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the roads, standing in for the shore before a gentle breeze that
      scarcely ruffled the sapphire surface of the Caribbean, came a stately
      red-hulled frigate, flying the English ensign.
    </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop halted to consider her, shading his eyes with his fleshly
      hand. Light as was the breeze, the vessel spread no canvas to it beyond
      that of her foresail. Furled was her every other sail, leaving a clear
      view of the majestic lines of her hull, from towering stern castle to
      gilded beakhead that was aflash in the dazzling sunshine.
    </p>
    <p>
      So leisurely an advance argued a master indifferently acquainted with
      these waters, who preferred to creep forward cautiously, sounding his way.
      At her present rate of progress it would be an hour, perhaps, before she
      came to anchorage within the harbour. And whilst the Colonel viewed her,
      admiring, perhaps, the gracious beauty of her, Pitt was hurried forward
      into the stockade, and clapped into the stocks that stood there ready for
      slaves who required correction.
    </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop followed him presently, with leisurely, rolling gait.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A mutinous cur that shows his fangs to his master must learn good manners
      at the cost of a striped hide,&rdquo; was all he said before setting about his
      executioner&rsquo;s job.
    </p>
    <p>
      That with his own hands he should do that which most men of his station
      would, out of self-respect, have relegated to one of the negroes, gives
      you the measure of the man&rsquo;s beastliness. It was almost as if with relish,
      as if gratifying some feral instinct of cruelty, that he now lashed his
      victim about head and shoulders. Soon his cane was reduced, to splinters
      by his violence. You know, perhaps, the sting of a flexible bamboo cane
      when it is whole. But do you realize its murderous quality when it has
      been split into several long lithe blades, each with an edge that is of
      the keenness of a knife?
    </p>
    <p>
      When, at last, from very weariness, Colonel Bishop flung away the stump
      and thongs to which his cane had been reduced, the wretched slave&rsquo;s back
      was bleeding pulp from neck to waist.
    </p>
    <p>
      As long as full sensibility remained, Jeremy Pitt had made no sound. But
      in a measure as from pain his senses were mercifully dulled, he sank
      forward in the stocks, and hung there now in a huddled heap, faintly
      moaning.
    </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop set his foot upon the crossbar, and leaned over his victim,
      a cruel smile on his full, coarse face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let that teach you a proper submission,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;And now touching that
      shy friend of yours, you shall stay here without meat or drink&mdash;without
      meat or drink, d&rsquo; ye hear me?&mdash;until you please to tell me his name
      and business.&rdquo; He took his foot from the bar. &ldquo;When you&rsquo;ve had enough of
      this, send me word, and we&rsquo;ll have the branding-irons to you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      On that he swung on his heel, and strode out of the stockade, his negroes
      following.
    </p>
    <p>
      Pitt had heard him, as we hear things in our dreams. At the moment so
      spent was he by his cruel punishment, and so deep was the despair into
      which he had fallen, that he no longer cared whether he lived or died.
    </p>
    <p>
      Soon, however, from the partial stupor which pain had mercifully induced,
      a new variety of pain aroused him. The stocks stood in the open under the
      full glare of the tropical sun, and its blistering rays streamed down upon
      that mangled, bleeding back until he felt as if flames of fire were
      searing it. And, soon, to this was added a torment still more unspeakable.
      Flies, the cruel flies of the Antilles, drawn by the scent of blood,
      descended in a cloud upon him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Small wonder that the ingenious Colonel Bishop, who so well understood the
      art of loosening stubborn tongues, had not deemed it necessary to have
      recourse to other means of torture. Not all his fiendish cruelty could
      devise a torment more cruel, more unendurable than the torments Nature
      would here procure a man in Pitt&rsquo;s condition.
    </p>
    <p>
      The slave writhed in his stocks until he was in danger of breaking his
      limbs, and writhing, screamed in agony.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus was he found by Peter Blood, who seemed to his troubled vision to
      materialize suddenly before him. Mr. Blood carried a large palmetto leaf.
      Having whisked away with this the flies that were devouring Jeremy&rsquo;s back,
      he slung it by a strip of fibre from the lad&rsquo;s neck, so that it protected
      him from further attacks as well as from the rays of the sun. Next,
      sitting down beside him, he drew the sufferer&rsquo;s head down on his own
      shoulder, and bathed his face from a pannikin of cold water. Pitt
      shuddered and moaned on a long, indrawn breath.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Drink!&rdquo; he gasped. &ldquo;Drink, for the love of Christ!&rdquo; The pannikin was held
      to his quivering lips. He drank greedily, noisily, nor ceased until he had
      drained the vessel. Cooled and revived by the draught, he attempted to sit
      up.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My back!&rdquo; he screamed.
    </p>
    <p>
      There was an unusual glint in Mr. Blood&rsquo;s eyes; his lips were compressed.
      But when he parted them to speak, his voice came cool and steady.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Be easy, now. One thing at a time. Your back&rsquo;s taking no harm at all for
      the present, since I&rsquo;ve covered it up. I&rsquo;m wanting to know what&rsquo;s happened
      to you. D&rsquo; ye think we can do without a navigator that ye go and provoke
      that beast Bishop until he all but kills you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Pitt sat up and groaned again. But this time his anguish was mental rather
      than physical.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think a navigator will be needed this time, Peter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What&rsquo;s that?&rdquo; cried Mr. Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      Pitt explained the situation as briefly as he could, in a halting, gasping
      speech. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m to rot here until I tell him the identity of my visitor and
      his business.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood got up, growling in his throat. &ldquo;Bad cess to the filthy slaver!&rdquo;
       said he. &ldquo;But it must be contrived, nevertheless. To the devil with
      Nuttall! Whether he gives surety for the boat or not, whether he explains
      it or not, the boat remains, and we&rsquo;re going, and you&rsquo;re coming with us.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;re dreaming, Peter,&rdquo; said the prisoner. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re not going this time.
      The magistrates will confiscate the boat since the surety&rsquo;s not paid, even
      if when they press him Nuttall does not confess the whole plan and get us
      all branded on the forehead.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood turned away, and with agony in his eyes looked out to sea over
      the blue water by which he had so fondly hoped soon to be travelling back
      to freedom.
    </p>
    <p>
      The great red ship had drawn considerably nearer shore by now. Slowly,
      majestically, she was entering the bay. Already one or two wherries were
      putting off from the wharf to board her. From where he stood, Mr. Blood
      could see the glinting of the brass cannons mounted on the prow above the
      curving beak-head, and he could make out the figure of a seaman in the
      forechains on her larboard side, leaning out to heave the lead.
    </p>
    <p>
      An angry voice aroused him from his unhappy thoughts.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What the devil are you doing here?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The returning Colonel Bishop came striding into the stockade, his negroes
      following ever.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood turned to face him, and over that swarthy countenance&mdash;which,
      indeed, by now was tanned to the golden brown of a half-caste Indian&mdash;a
      mask descended.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Doing?&rdquo; said he blandly. &ldquo;Why, the duties of my office.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Colonel, striding furiously forward, observed two things. The empty
      pannikin on the seat beside the prisoner, and the palmetto leaf protecting
      his back. &ldquo;Have you dared to do this?&rdquo; The veins on the planter&rsquo;s forehead
      stood out like cords.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of course I have.&rdquo; Mr. Blood&rsquo;s tone was one of faint surprise.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I said he was to have neither meat nor drink until I ordered it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sure, now, I never heard ye.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You never heard me? How should you have heard me when you weren&rsquo;t here?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then how did ye expect me to know what orders ye&rsquo;d given?&rdquo; Mr. Blood&rsquo;s
      tone was positively aggrieved. &ldquo;All that I knew was that one of your
      slaves was being murthered by the sun and the flies. And I says to myself,
      this is one of the Colonel&rsquo;s slaves, and I&rsquo;m the Colonel&rsquo;s doctor, and
      sure it&rsquo;s my duty to be looking after the Colonel&rsquo;s property. So I just
      gave the fellow a spoonful of water and covered his back from the sun. And
      wasn&rsquo;t I right now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Right?&rdquo; The Colonel was almost speechless.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Be easy, now, be easy!&rdquo; Mr. Blood implored him. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s an apoplexy ye&rsquo;ll
      be contacting if ye give way to heat like this.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The planter thrust him aside with an imprecation, and stepping forward
      tore the palmetto leaf from the prisoner&rsquo;s back.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the name of humanity, now....&rdquo; Mr. Blood was beginning.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Colonel swung upon him furiously. &ldquo;Out of this!&rdquo; he commanded. &ldquo;And
      don&rsquo;t come near him again until I send for you, unless you want to be
      served in the same way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was terrific in his menace, in his bulk, and in the power of him. But
      Mr. Blood never flinched. It came to the Colonel, as he found himself
      steadily regarded by those light-blue eyes that looked so arrestingly odd
      in that tawny face&mdash;like pale sapphires set in copper&mdash;that this
      rogue had for some time now been growing presumptuous. It was a matter
      that he must presently correct. Meanwhile Mr. Blood was speaking again,
      his tone quietly insistent.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the name of humanity,&rdquo; he repeated, &ldquo;ye&rsquo;ll allow me to do what I can
      to ease his sufferings, or I swear to you that I&rsquo;ll forsake at once the
      duties of a doctor, and that it&rsquo;s devil another patient will I attend in
      this unhealthy island at all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For an instant the Colonel was too amazed to speak. Then&mdash;
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By God!&rdquo; he roared. &ldquo;D&rsquo;ye dare take that tone with me, you dog? D&rsquo;ye dare
      to make terms with me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I do that.&rdquo; The unflinching blue eyes looked squarely into the Colonel&rsquo;s,
      and there was a devil peeping out of them, the devil of recklessness that
      is born of despair.
    </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop considered him for a long moment in silence. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve been too
      soft with you,&rdquo; he said at last. &ldquo;But that&rsquo;s to be mended.&rdquo; And he
      tightened his lips. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll have the rods to you, until there&rsquo;s not an inch
      of skin left on your dirty back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will ye so? And what would Governor Steed do, then?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;re not the only doctor on the island.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood actually laughed. &ldquo;And will ye tell that to his excellency, him
      with the gout in his foot so bad that he can&rsquo;t stand? Ye know very well
      it&rsquo;s devil another doctor will he tolerate, being an intelligent man that
      knows what&rsquo;s good for him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But the Colonel&rsquo;s brute passion thoroughly aroused was not so easily to be
      baulked. &ldquo;If you&rsquo;re alive when my blacks have done with you, perhaps
      you&rsquo;ll come to your senses.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He swung to his negroes to issue an order. But it was never issued. At
      that moment a terrific rolling thunderclap drowned his voice and shook the
      very air. Colonel Bishop jumped, his negroes jumped with him, and so even
      did the apparently imperturbable Mr. Blood. Then the four of them stared
      together seawards.
    </p>
    <p>
      Down in the bay all that could be seen of the great ship, standing now
      within a cable&rsquo;s-length of the fort, were her topmasts thrusting above a
      cloud of smoke in which she was enveloped. From the cliffs a flight of
      startled seabirds had risen to circle in the blue, giving tongue to their
      alarm, the plaintive curlew noisiest of all.
    </p>
    <p>
      As those men stared from the eminence on which they stood, not yet
      understanding what had taken place, they saw the British Jack dip from the
      main truck and vanish into the rising cloud below. A moment more, and up
      through that cloud to replace the flag of England soared the gold and
      crimson banner of Castile. And then they understood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pirates!&rdquo; roared the Colonel, and again, &ldquo;Pirates!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Fear and incredulity were blent in his voice. He had paled under his tan
      until his face was the colour of clay, and there was a wild fury in his
      beady eyes. His negroes looked at him, grinning idiotically, all teeth and
      eyeballs.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0008" id="link2HCH0008">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER VIII. SPANIARDS
    </h2>
    <p>
      The stately ship that had been allowed to sail so leisurely into Carlisle
      Bay under her false colours was a Spanish privateer, coming to pay off
      some of the heavy debt piled up by the predaceous Brethren of the Coast,
      and the recent defeat by the Pride of Devon of two treasure galleons bound
      for Cadiz. It happened that the galleon which escaped in a more or less
      crippled condition was commanded by Don Diego de Espinosa y Valdez, who
      was own brother to the Spanish Admiral Don Miguel de Espinosa, and who was
      also a very hasty, proud, and hot-tempered gentleman.
    </p>
    <p>
      Galled by his defeat, and choosing to forget that his own conduct had
      invited it, he had sworn to teach the English a sharp lesson which they
      should remember. He would take a leaf out of the book of Morgan and those
      other robbers of the sea, and make a punitive raid upon an English
      settlement. Unfortunately for himself and for many others, his brother the
      Admiral was not at hand to restrain him when for this purpose he fitted
      out the Cinco Llagas at San Juan de Porto Rico. He chose for his objective
      the island of Barbados, whose natural strength was apt to render her
      defenders careless. He chose it also because thither had the Pride of
      Devon been tracked by his scouts, and he desired a measure of poetic
      justice to invest his vengeance. And he chose a moment when there were no
      ships of war at anchor in Carlisle Bay.
    </p>
    <p>
      He had succeeded so well in his intentions that he had aroused no
      suspicion until he saluted the fort at short range with a broadside of
      twenty guns.
    </p>
    <p>
      And now the four gaping watchers in the stockade on the headland beheld
      the great ship creep forward under the rising cloud of smoke, her mainsail
      unfurled to increase her steering way, and go about close-hauled to bring
      her larboard guns to bear upon the unready fort.
    </p>
    <p>
      With the crashing roar of that second broadside, Colonel Bishop awoke from
      stupefaction to a recollection of where his duty lay. In the town below
      drums were beating frantically, and a trumpet was bleating, as if the
      peril needed further advertising. As commander of the Barbados Militia,
      the place of Colonel Bishop was at the head of his scanty troops, in that
      fort which the Spanish guns were pounding into rubble.
    </p>
    <p>
      Remembering it, he went off at the double, despite his bulk and the heat,
      his negroes trotting after him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood turned to Jeremy Pitt. He laughed grimly. &ldquo;Now that,&rdquo; said he,
      &ldquo;is what I call a timely interruption. Though what&rsquo;ll come of it,&rdquo; he
      added as an afterthought, &ldquo;the devil himself knows.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As a third broadside was thundering forth, he picked up the palmetto leaf
      and carefully replaced it on the back of his fellow-slave.
    </p>
    <p>
      And then into the stockade, panting and sweating, came Kent followed by
      best part of a score of plantation workers, some of whom were black and
      all of whom were in a state of panic. He led them into the low white
      house, to bring them forth again, within a moment, as it seemed, armed now
      with muskets and hangers and some of them equipped with bandoleers.
    </p>
    <p>
      By this time the rebels-convict were coming in, in twos and threes, having
      abandoned their work upon finding themselves unguarded and upon scenting
      the general dismay.
    </p>
    <p>
      Kent paused a moment, as his hastily armed guard dashed forth, to fling an
      order to those slaves.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To the woods!&rdquo; he bade them. &ldquo;Take to the woods, and lie close there,
      until this is over, and we&rsquo;ve gutted these Spanish swine.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      On that he went off in haste after his men, who were to be added to those
      massing in the town, so as to oppose and overwhelm the Spanish landing
      parties.
    </p>
    <p>
      The slaves would have obeyed him on the instant but for Mr. Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What need for haste, and in this heat?&rdquo; quoth he. He was surprisingly
      cool, they thought. &ldquo;Maybe there&rsquo;ll be no need to take to the woods at
      all, and, anyway, it will be time enough to do so when the Spaniards are
      masters of the town.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And so, joined now by the other stragglers, and numbering in all a round
      score&mdash;rebels-convict all&mdash;they stayed to watch from their
      vantage-ground the fortunes of the furious battle that was being waged
      below.
    </p>
    <p>
      The landing was contested by the militia and by every islander capable of
      bearing arms with the fierce resoluteness of men who knew that no quarter
      was to be expected in defeat. The ruthlessness of Spanish soldiery was a
      byword, and not at his worst had Morgan or L&rsquo;Ollonais ever perpetrated
      such horrors as those of which these Castilian gentlemen were capable.
    </p>
    <p>
      But this Spanish commander knew his business, which was more than could
      truthfully be said for the Barbados Militia. Having gained the advantage
      of a surprise blow, which had put the fort out of action, he soon showed
      them that he was master of the situation. His guns turned now upon the
      open space behind the mole, where the incompetent Bishop had marshalled
      his men, tore the militia into bloody rags, and covered the landing
      parties which were making the shore in their own boats and in several of
      those which had rashly gone out to the great ship before her identity was
      revealed.
    </p>
    <p>
      All through the scorching afternoon the battle went on, the rattle and
      crack of musketry penetrating ever deeper into the town to show that the
      defenders were being driven steadily back. By sunset two hundred and fifty
      Spaniards were masters of Bridgetown, the islanders were disarmed, and at
      Government House, Governor Steed&mdash;his gout forgotten in his panic&mdash;supported
      by Colonel Bishop and some lesser officers, was being informed by Don
      Diego, with an urbanity that was itself a mockery, of the sum that would
      be required in ransom.
    </p>
    <p>
      For a hundred thousand pieces of eight and fifty head of cattle, Don Diego
      would forbear from reducing the place to ashes. And what time that suave
      and courtly commander was settling these details with the apoplectic
      British Governor, the Spaniards were smashing and looting, feasting,
      drinking, and ravaging after the hideous manner of their kind.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood, greatly daring, ventured down at dusk into the town. What he
      saw there is recorded by Jeremy Pitt to whom he subsequently related it&mdash;in
      that voluminous log from which the greater part of my narrative is
      derived. I have no intention of repeating any of it here. It is all too
      loathsome and nauseating, incredible, indeed, that men however abandoned
      could ever descend such an abyss of bestial cruelty and lust.
    </p>
    <p>
      What he saw was fetching him in haste and white-faced out of that hell
      again, when in a narrow street a girl hurtled into him, wild-eyed, her
      unbound hair streaming behind her as she ran. After her, laughing and
      cursing in a breath, came a heavy-booted Spaniard. Almost he was upon her,
      when suddenly Mr. Blood got in his way. The doctor had taken a sword from
      a dead man&rsquo;s side some little time before and armed himself with it
      against an emergency.
    </p>
    <p>
      As the Spaniard checked in anger and surprise, he caught in the dusk the
      livid gleam of that sword which Mr. Blood had quickly unsheathed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah, perro ingles!&rdquo; he shouted, and flung forward to his death.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s hoping I am ye&rsquo;re in a fit state to meet your Maker,&rdquo; said Mr.
      Blood, and ran him through the body. He did the thing skilfully: with the
      combined skill of swordsman and surgeon. The man sank in a hideous heap
      without so much as a groan.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood swung to the girl, who leaned panting and sobbing against a
      wall. He caught her by the wrist.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Come!&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      But she hung back, resisting him by her weight. &ldquo;Who are you?&rdquo; she
      demanded wildly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will ye wait to see my credentials?&rdquo; he snapped. Steps were clattering
      towards them from beyond the corner round which she had fled from that
      Spanish ruffian. &ldquo;Come,&rdquo; he urged again. And this time, reassured perhaps
      by his clear English speech, she went without further questions.
    </p>
    <p>
      They sped down an alley and then up another, by great good fortune meeting
      no one, for already they were on the outskirts of the town. They won out
      of it, and white-faced, physically sick, Mr. Blood dragged her almost at a
      run up the hill towards Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s house. He told her briefly who
      and what he was, and thereafter there was no conversation between them
      until they reached the big white house. It was all in darkness, which at
      least was reassuring. If the Spaniards had reached it, there would be
      lights. He knocked, but had to knock again and yet again before he was
      answered. Then it was by a voice from a window above.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who is there?&rdquo; The voice was Miss Bishop&rsquo;s, a little tremulous, but
      unmistakably her own.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood almost fainted in relief. He had been imagining the
      unimaginable. He had pictured her down in that hell out of which he had
      just come. He had conceived that she might have followed her uncle into
      Bridgetown, or committed some other imprudence, and he turned cold from
      head to foot at the mere thought of what might have happened to her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is I&mdash;Peter Blood,&rdquo; he gasped.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you want?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It is doubtful whether she would have come down to open. For at such a
      time as this it was no more than likely that the wretched plantation
      slaves might be in revolt and prove as great a danger as the Spaniards.
      But at the sound of her voice, the girl Mr. Blood had rescued peered up
      through the gloom.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Arabella!&rdquo; she called. &ldquo;It is I, Mary Traill.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mary!&rdquo; The voice ceased above on that exclamation, the head was
      withdrawn. After a brief pause the door gaped wide. Beyond it in the wide
      hall stood Miss Arabella, a slim, virginal figure in white, mysteriously
      revealed in the gleam of a single candle which she carried.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood strode in followed by his distraught companion, who, falling
      upon Arabella&rsquo;s slender bosom, surrendered herself to a passion of tears.
      But he wasted no time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Whom have you here with you? What servants?&rdquo; he demanded sharply.
    </p>
    <p>
      The only male was James, an old negro groom.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The very man,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;Bid him get out horses. Then away with you to
      Speightstown, or even farther north, where you will be safe. Here you are
      in danger&mdash;in dreadful danger.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But I thought the fighting was over...&rdquo; she was beginning, pale and
      startled.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So it is. But the deviltry&rsquo;s only beginning. Miss Traill will tell you as
      you go. In God&rsquo;s name, madam, take my word for it, and do as I bid you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He... he saved me,&rdquo; sobbed Miss Traill.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Saved you?&rdquo; Miss Bishop was aghast. &ldquo;Saved you from what, Mary?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let that wait,&rdquo; snapped Mr. Blood almost angrily. &ldquo;You&rsquo;ve all the night
      for chattering when you&rsquo;re out of this, and away beyond their reach. Will
      you please call James, and do as I say&mdash;and at once!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are very peremptory....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, my God! I am peremptory! Speak, Miss Trail!, tell her whether I&rsquo;ve
      cause to be peremptory.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, yes,&rdquo; the girl cried, shuddering. &ldquo;Do as he says&mdash;Oh, for
      pity&rsquo;s sake, Arabella.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Bishop went off, leaving Mr. Blood and Miss Traill alone again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I... I shall never forget what you did, sir,&rdquo; said she, through her
      diminishing tears. She was a slight wisp of a girl, a child, no more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve done better things in my time. That&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m here,&rdquo; said Mr. Blood,
      whose mood seemed to be snappy.
    </p>
    <p>
      She didn&rsquo;t pretend to understand him, and she didn&rsquo;t make the attempt.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you... did you kill him?&rdquo; she asked, fearfully.
    </p>
    <p>
      He stared at her in the flickering candlelight. &ldquo;I hope so. It is very
      probable, and it doesn&rsquo;t matter at all,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;What matters is that
      this fellow James should fetch the horses.&rdquo; And he was stamping off to
      accelerate these preparations for departure, when her voice arrested him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t leave me! Don&rsquo;t leave me here alone!&rdquo; she cried in terror.
    </p>
    <p>
      He paused. He turned and came slowly back. Standing above her he smiled
      upon her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There, there! You&rsquo;ve no cause for alarm. It&rsquo;s all over now. You&rsquo;ll be
      away soon&mdash;away to Speightstown, where you&rsquo;ll be quite safe.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The horses came at last&mdash;four of them, for in addition to James who
      was to act as her guide, Miss Bishop had her woman, who was not to be left
      behind.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood lifted the slight weight of Mary Traill to her horse, then
      turned to say good-bye to Miss Bishop, who was already mounted. He said
      it, and seemed to have something to add. But whatever it was, it remained
      unspoken. The horses started, and receded into the sapphire starlit night,
      leaving him standing there before Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s door. The last he heard
      of them was Mary Traill&rsquo;s childlike voice calling back on a quavering note&mdash;
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I shall never forget what you did, Mr. Blood. I shall never forget.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But as it was not the voice he desired to hear, the assurance brought him
      little satisfaction. He stood there in the dark watching the fireflies
      amid the rhododendrons, till the hoofbeats had faded. Then he sighed and
      roused himself. He had much to do. His journey into the town had not been
      one of idle curiosity to see how the Spaniards conducted themselves in
      victory. It had been inspired by a very different purpose, and he had
      gained in the course of it all the information he desired. He had an
      extremely busy night before him, and must be moving.
    </p>
    <p>
      He went off briskly in the direction of the stockade, where his
      fellow-slaves awaited him in deep anxiety and some hope.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0009" id="link2HCH0009">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER IX. THE REBELS-CONVICT
    </h2>
    <p>
      There were, when the purple gloom of the tropical night descended upon the
      Caribbean, not more than ten men on guard aboard the Cinco Llagas, so
      confident&mdash;and with good reason&mdash;were the Spaniards of the
      complete subjection of the islanders. And when I say that there were ten
      men on guard, I state rather the purpose for which they were left aboard
      than the duty which they fulfilled. As a matter of fact, whilst the main
      body of the Spaniards feasted and rioted ashore, the Spanish gunner and
      his crew&mdash;who had so nobly done their duty and ensured the easy
      victory of the day&mdash;were feasting on the gun-deck upon the wine and
      the fresh meats fetched out to them from shore. Above, two sentinels only
      kept vigil, at stem and stern. Nor were they as vigilant as they should
      have been, or else they must have observed the two wherries that under
      cover of the darkness came gliding from the wharf, with well-greased
      rowlocks, to bring up in silence under the great ship&rsquo;s quarter.
    </p>
    <p>
      From the gallery aft still hung the ladder by which Don Diego had
      descended to the boat that had taken him ashore. The sentry on guard in
      the stern, coming presently round this gallery, was suddenly confronted by
      the black shadow of a man standing before him at the head of the ladder.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who&rsquo;s there?&rdquo; he asked, but without alarm, supposing it one of his
      fellows.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is I,&rdquo; softly answered Peter Blood in the fluent Castillan of which he
      was master.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it you, Pedro?&rdquo; The Spaniard came a step nearer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Peter is my name; but I doubt I&rsquo;ll not be the Peter you&rsquo;re expecting.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How?&rdquo; quoth the sentry, checking.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This way,&rdquo; said Mr. Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      The wooden taffrail was a low one, and the Spaniard was taken completely
      by surprise. Save for the splash he made as he struck the water, narrowly
      missing one of the crowded boats that waited under the counter, not a
      sound announced his misadventure. Armed as he was with corselet,
      cuissarts, and headpiece, he sank to trouble them no more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Whist!&rdquo; hissed Mr. Blood to his waiting rebels-convict. &ldquo;Come on, now,
      and without noise.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Within five minutes they had swarmed aboard, the entire twenty of them
      overflowing from that narrow gallery and crouching on the quarter-deck
      itself. Lights showed ahead. Under the great lantern in the prow they saw
      the black figure of the other sentry, pacing on the forecastle. From below
      sounds reached them of the orgy on the gun-deck: a rich male voice was
      singing an obscene ballad to which the others chanted in chorus:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Y estos son los usos de Castilla y de Leon!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;From what I&rsquo;ve seen to-day I can well believe it,&rdquo; said Mr. Blood, and
      whispered: &ldquo;Forward&mdash;after me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Crouching low, they glided, noiseless as shadows, to the quarter-deck
      rail, and thence slipped without sound down into the waist. Two thirds of
      them were armed with muskets, some of which they had found in the
      overseer&rsquo;s house, and others supplied from the secret hoard that Mr. Blood
      had so laboriously assembled against the day of escape. The remainder were
      equipped with knives and cutlasses.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the vessel&rsquo;s waist they hung awhile, until Mr. Blood had satisfied
      himself that no other sentinel showed above decks but that inconvenient
      fellow in the prow. Their first attention must be for him. Mr. Blood,
      himself, crept forward with two companions, leaving the others in the
      charge of that Nathaniel Hagthorpe whose sometime commission in the King&rsquo;s
      Navy gave him the best title to this office.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood&rsquo;s absence was brief. When he rejoined his comrades there was no
      watch above the Spaniards&rsquo; decks.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meanwhile the revellers below continued to make merry at their ease in the
      conviction of complete security. The garrison of Barbados was overpowered
      and disarmed, and their companions were ashore in complete possession of
      the town, glutting themselves hideously upon the fruits of victory. What,
      then, was there to fear? Even when their quarters were invaded and they
      found themselves surrounded by a score of wild, hairy, half-naked men, who&mdash;save
      that they appeared once to have been white&mdash;looked like a horde of
      savages, the Spaniards could not believe their eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      Who could have dreamed that a handful of forgotten plantation-slaves would
      have dared to take so much upon themselves?
    </p>
    <p>
      The half-drunken Spaniards, their laughter suddenly quenched, the song
      perishing on their lips, stared, stricken and bewildered at the levelled
      muskets by which they were checkmated.
    </p>
    <p>
      And then, from out of this uncouth pack of savages that beset them,
      stepped a slim, tall fellow with light-blue eyes in a tawny face, eyes in
      which glinted the light of a wicked humour. He addressed them in the
      purest Castilian.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You will save yourselves pain and trouble by regarding yourselves my
      prisoners, and suffering yourselves to be quietly bestowed out of harm&rsquo;s
      way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Name of God!&rdquo; swore the gunner, which did no justice at all to an
      amazement beyond expression.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you please,&rdquo; said Mr. Blood, and thereupon those gentlemen of Spain
      were induced without further trouble beyond a musket prod or two to drop
      through a scuttle to the deck below.
    </p>
    <p>
      After that the rebels-convict refreshed themselves with the good things in
      the consumption of which they had interrupted the Spaniards. To taste
      palatable Christian food after months of salt fish and maize dumplings was
      in itself a feast to these unfortunates. But there were no excesses. Mr.
      Blood saw to that, although it required all the firmness of which he was
      capable.
    </p>
    <p>
      Dispositions were to be made without delay against that which must follow
      before they could abandon themselves fully to the enjoyment of their
      victory. This, after all, was no more than a preliminary skirmish,
      although it was one that afforded them the key to the situation. It
      remained to dispose so that the utmost profit might be drawn from it.
      Those dispositions occupied some very considerable portion of the night.
      But, at least, they were complete before the sun peeped over the shoulder
      of Mount Hilibay to shed his light upon a day of some surprises.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was soon after sunrise that the rebel-convict who paced the
      quarter-deck in Spanish corselet and headpiece, a Spanish musket on his
      shoulder, announced the approach of a boat. It was Don Diego de Espinosa y
      Valdez coming aboard with four great treasure-chests, containing each
      twenty-five thousand pieces of eight, the ransom delivered to him at dawn
      by Governor Steed. He was accompanied by his son, Don Esteban, and by six
      men who took the oars.
    </p>
    <p>
      Aboard the frigate all was quiet and orderly as it should be. She rode at
      anchor, her larboard to the shore, and the main ladder on her starboard
      side. Round to this came the boat with Don Diego and his treasure. Mr.
      Blood had disposed effectively. It was not for nothing that he had served
      under de Ruyter. The swings were waiting, and the windlass manned. Below,
      a gun-crew held itself in readiness under the command of Ogle, who&mdash;as
      I have said&mdash;had been a gunner in the Royal Navy before he went in
      for politics and followed the fortunes of the Duke of Monmouth. He was a
      sturdy, resolute fellow who inspired confidence by the very confidence he
      displayed in himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      Don Diego mounted the ladder and stepped upon the deck, alone, and
      entirely unsuspicious. What should the poor man suspect?
    </p>
    <p>
      Before he could even look round, and survey this guard drawn up to receive
      him, a tap over the head with a capstan bar efficiently handled by
      Hagthorpe put him to sleep without the least fuss.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was carried away to his cabin, whilst the treasure-chests, handled by
      the men he had left in the boat, were being hauled to the deck. That being
      satisfactorily accomplished, Don Esteban and the fellows who had manned
      the boat came up the ladder, one by one, to be handled with the same quiet
      efficiency. Peter Blood had a genius for these things, and almost, I
      suspect, an eye for the dramatic. Dramatic, certainly, was the spectacle
      now offered to the survivors of the raid.
    </p>
    <p>
      With Colonel Bishop at their head, and gout-ridden Governor Steed sitting
      on the ruins of a wall beside him, they glumly watched the departure of
      the eight boats containing the weary Spanish ruffians who had glutted
      themselves with rapine, murder, and violences unspeakable.
    </p>
    <p>
      They looked on, between relief at this departure of their remorseless
      enemies, and despair at the wild ravages which, temporarily at least, had
      wrecked the prosperity and happiness of that little colony.
    </p>
    <p>
      The boats pulled away from the shore, with their loads of laughing,
      jeering Spaniards, who were still flinging taunts across the water at
      their surviving victims. They had come midway between the wharf and the
      ship, when suddenly the air was shaken by the boom of a gun.
    </p>
    <p>
      A round shot struck the water within a fathom of the foremost boat,
      sending a shower of spray over its occupants. They paused at their oars,
      astounded into silence for a moment. Then speech burst from them like an
      explosion. Angrily voluble they anathematized this dangerous carelessness
      on the part of their gunner, who should know better than to fire a salute
      from a cannon loaded with shot. They were still cursing him when a second
      shot, better aimed than the first, came to crumple one of the boats into
      splinters, flinging its crew, dead and living, into the water.
    </p>
    <p>
      But if it silenced these, it gave tongue, still more angry, vehement, and
      bewildered to the crews of the other seven boats. From each the suspended
      oars stood out poised over the water, whilst on their feet in the
      excitement the Spaniards screamed oaths at the ship, begging Heaven and
      Hell to inform them what madman had been let loose among her guns.
    </p>
    <p>
      Plump into their middle came a third shot, smashing a second boat with
      fearful execution. Followed again a moment of awful silence, then among
      those Spanish pirates all was gibbering and jabbering and splashing of
      oars, as they attempted to pull in every direction at once. Some were for
      going ashore, others for heading straight to the vessel and there
      discovering what might be amiss. That something was very gravely amiss
      there could be no further doubt, particularly as whilst they discussed and
      fumed and cursed two more shots came over the water to account for yet a
      third of their boats.
    </p>
    <p>
      The resolute Ogle was making excellent practice, and fully justifying his
      claims to know something of gunnery. In their consternation the Spaniards
      had simplified his task by huddling their boats together.
    </p>
    <p>
      After the fourth shot, opinion was no longer divided amongst them. As with
      one accord they went about, or attempted to do so, for before they had
      accomplished it two more of their boats had been sunk.
    </p>
    <p>
      The three boats that remained, without concerning themselves with their
      more unfortunate fellows, who were struggling in the water, headed back
      for the wharf at speed.
    </p>
    <p>
      If the Spaniards understood nothing of all this, the forlorn islanders
      ashore understood still less, until to help their wits they saw the flag
      of Spain come down from the mainmast of the Cinco Llagas, and the flag of
      England soar to its empty place. Even then some bewilderment persisted,
      and it was with fearful eyes that they observed the return of their
      enemies, who might vent upon them the ferocity aroused by these
      extraordinary events.
    </p>
    <p>
      Ogle, however, continued to give proof that his knowledge of gunnery was
      not of yesterday. After the fleeing Spaniards went his shots. The last of
      their boats flew into splinters as it touched the wharf, and its remains
      were buried under a shower of loosened masonry.
    </p>
    <p>
      That was the end of this pirate crew, which not ten minutes ago had been
      laughingly counting up the pieces of eight that would fall to the portion
      of each for his share in that act of villainy. Close upon threescore
      survivors contrived to reach the shore. Whether they had cause for
      congratulation, I am unable to say in the absence of any records in which
      their fate may be traced. That lack of records is in itself eloquent. We
      know that they were made fast as they landed, and considering the offence
      they had given I am not disposed to doubt that they had every reason to
      regret the survival.
    </p>
    <p>
      The mystery of the succour that had come at the eleventh hour to wreak
      vengeance upon the Spaniards, and to preserve for the island the
      extortionate ransom of a hundred thousand pieces of eight, remained yet to
      be probed. That the Cinco Llagas was now in friendly hands could no longer
      be doubted after the proofs it had given. But who, the people of
      Bridgetown asked one another, were the men in possession of her, and
      whence had they come? The only possible assumption ran the truth very
      closely. A resolute party of islanders must have got aboard during the
      night, and seized the ship. It remained to ascertain the precise identity
      of these mysterious saviours, and do them fitting honour.
    </p>
    <p>
      Upon this errand&mdash;Governor Steed&rsquo;s condition not permitting him to go
      in person&mdash;went Colonel Bishop as the Governor&rsquo;s deputy, attended by
      two officers.
    </p>
    <p>
      As he stepped from the ladder into the vessel&rsquo;s waist, the Colonel beheld
      there, beside the main hatch, the four treasure-chests, the contents of
      one of which had been contributed almost entirely by himself. It was a
      gladsome spectacle, and his eyes sparkled in beholding it.
    </p>
    <p>
      Ranged on either side, athwart the deck, stood a score of men in two
      well-ordered files, with breasts and backs of steel, polished Spanish
      morions on their heads, overshadowing their faces, and muskets ordered at
      their sides.
    </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop could not be expected to recognize at a glance in these
      upright, furbished, soldierly figures the ragged, unkempt scarecrows that
      but yesterday had been toiling in his plantations. Still less could he be
      expected to recognize at once the courtly gentleman who advanced to greet
      him&mdash;a lean, graceful gentleman, dressed in the Spanish fashion, all
      in black with silver lace, a gold-hilted sword dangling beside him from a
      gold embroidered baldrick, a broad castor with a sweeping plume set above
      carefully curled ringlets of deepest black.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Be welcome aboard the Cinco Llagas, Colonel, darling,&rdquo; a voice vaguely
      familiar addressed the planter. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve made the best of the Spaniards&rsquo; 
      wardrobe in honour of this visit, though it was scarcely yourself we had
      dared hope to expect. You find yourself among friends&mdash;old friends of
      yours, all.&rdquo; The Colonel stared in stupefaction. Mr. Blood tricked out in
      all this splendour&mdash;indulging therein his natural taste&mdash;his
      face carefully shaven, his hair as carefully dressed, seemed transformed
      into a younger man. The fact is he looked no more than the thirty-three
      years he counted to his age.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Peter Blood!&rdquo; It was an ejaculation of amazement. Satisfaction followed
      swiftly. &ldquo;Was it you, then...?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Myself it was&mdash;myself and these, my good friends and yours.&rdquo; Mr.
      Blood tossed back the fine lace from his wrist, to wave a hand towards the
      file of men standing to attention there.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Colonel looked more closely. &ldquo;Gad&rsquo;s my life!&rdquo; he crowed on a note of
      foolish jubilation. &ldquo;And it was with these fellows that you took the
      Spaniard and turned the tables on those dogs! Oddswounds! It was heroic!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Heroic, is it? Bedad, it&rsquo;s epic! Ye begin to perceive the breadth and
      depth of my genius.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop sat himself down on the hatch-coaming, took off his broad
      hat, and mopped his brow.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Y&rsquo;amaze me!&rdquo; he gasped. &ldquo;On my soul, y&rsquo;amaze me! To have recovered the
      treasure and to have seized this fine ship and all she&rsquo;ll hold! It will be
      something to set against the other losses we have suffered. As Gad&rsquo;s my
      life, you deserve well for this.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am entirely of your opinion.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Damme! You all deserve well, and damme, you shall find me grateful.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s as it should be,&rdquo; said Mr. Blood. &ldquo;The question is how well we
      deserve, and how grateful shall we find you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop considered him. There was a shadow of surprise in his face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why&mdash;his excellency shall write home an account of your exploit, and
      maybe some portion of your sentences shall be remitted.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The generosity of King James is well known,&rdquo; sneered Nathaniel Hagthorpe,
      who was standing by, and amongst the ranged rebels-convict some one
      ventured to laugh.
    </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop started up. He was pervaded by the first pang of
      uneasiness. It occurred to him that all here might not be as friendly as
      appeared.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And there&rsquo;s another matter,&rdquo; Mr. Blood resumed. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s a matter of a
      flogging that&rsquo;s due to me. Ye&rsquo;re a man of your word in such matters,
      Colonel&mdash;if not perhaps in others&mdash;and ye said, I think, that
      ye&rsquo;d not leave a square inch of skin on my back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The planter waved the matter aside. Almost it seemed to offend him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Tush! Tush! After this splendid deed of yours, do you suppose I can be
      thinking of such things?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m glad ye feel like that about it. But I&rsquo;m thinking it&rsquo;s mighty lucky
      for me the Spaniards didn&rsquo;t come to-day instead of yesterday, or it&rsquo;s in
      the same plight as Jeremy Pitt I&rsquo;d be this minute. And in that case where
      was the genius that would have turned the tables on these rascally
      Spaniards?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why speak of it now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood resumed: &ldquo;ye&rsquo;ll please to understand that I must, Colonel,
      darling. Ye&rsquo;ve worked a deal of wickedness and cruelty in your time, and I
      want this to be a lesson to you, a lesson that ye&rsquo;ll remember&mdash;for
      the sake of others who may come after us. There&rsquo;s Jeremy up there in the
      round-house with a back that&rsquo;s every colour of the rainbow; and the poor
      lad&rsquo;ll not be himself again for a month. And if it hadn&rsquo;t been for the
      Spaniards maybe it&rsquo;s dead he&rsquo;d be by now, and maybe myself with him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Hagthorpe lounged forward. He was a fairly tall, vigorous man with a
      clear-cut, attractive face which in itself announced his breeding.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why will you be wasting words on the hog?&rdquo; wondered that sometime officer
      in the Royal Navy. &ldquo;Fling him overboard and have done with him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Colonel&rsquo;s eyes bulged in his head. &ldquo;What the devil do you mean?&rdquo; he
      blustered.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s the lucky man ye are entirely, Colonel, though ye don&rsquo;t guess the
      source of your good fortune.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And now another intervened&mdash;the brawny, one-eyed Wolverstone, less
      mercifully disposed than his more gentlemanly fellow-convict.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;String him up from the yardarm,&rdquo; he cried, his deep voice harsh and
      angry, and more than one of the slaves standing to their arms made echo.
    </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop trembled. Mr. Blood turned. He was quite calm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you please, Wolverstone,&rdquo; said he, &ldquo;I conduct affairs in my own way.
      That is the pact. You&rsquo;ll please to remember it.&rdquo; His eyes looked along the
      ranks, making it plain that he addressed them all. &ldquo;I desire that Colonel
      Bishop should have his life. One reason is that I require him as a
      hostage. If ye insist on hanging him, ye&rsquo;ll have to hang me with him, or
      in the alternative I&rsquo;ll go ashore.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He paused. There was no answer. But they stood hang-dog and half-mutinous
      before him, save Hagthorpe, who shrugged and smiled wearily.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Blood resumed: &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;ll please to understand that aboard a ship there is
      one captain. So.&rdquo; He swung again to the startled Colonel. &ldquo;Though I
      promise you your life, I must&mdash;as you&rsquo;ve heard&mdash;keep you aboard
      as a hostage for the good behaviour of Governor Steed and what&rsquo;s left of
      the fort until we put to sea.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Until you...&rdquo; Horror prevented Colonel Bishop from echoing the remainder
      of that incredible speech.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just so,&rdquo; said Peter Blood, and he turned to the officers who had
      accompanied the Colonel. &ldquo;The boat is waiting, gentlemen. You&rsquo;ll have
      heard what I said. Convey it with my compliments to his excellency.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But, sir...&rdquo; one of them began.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is no more to be said, gentlemen. My name is Blood&mdash;Captain
      Blood, if you please, of this ship the Cinco Llagas, taken as a prize of
      war from Don Diego de Espinosa y Valdez, who is my prisoner aboard. You
      are to understand that I have turned the tables on more than the
      Spaniards. There&rsquo;s the ladder. You&rsquo;ll find it more convenient than being
      heaved over the side, which is what&rsquo;ll happen if you linger.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They went, though not without some hustling, regardless of the bellowings
      of Colonel Bishop, whose monstrous rage was fanned by terror at finding
      himself at the mercy of these men of whose cause to hate him he was very
      fully conscious.
    </p>
    <p>
      A half-dozen of them, apart from Jeremy Pitt, who was utterly
      incapacitated for the present, possessed a superficial knowledge of
      seamanship. Hagthorpe, although he had been a fighting officer, untrained
      in navigation, knew how to handle a ship, and under his directions they
      set about getting under way.
    </p>
    <p>
      The anchor catted, and the mainsail unfurled, they stood out for the open
      before a gentle breeze, without interference from the fort.
    </p>
    <p>
      As they were running close to the headland east of the bay, Peter Blood
      returned to the Colonel, who, under guard and panic-stricken, had
      dejectedly resumed his seat on the coamings of the main batch.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Can ye swim, Colonel?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop looked up. His great face was yellow and seemed in that
      moment of a preternatural flabbiness; his beady eyes were beadier than
      ever.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As your doctor, now, I prescribe a swim to cool the excessive heat of
      your humours.&rdquo; Blood delivered the explanation pleasantly, and, receiving
      still no answer from the Colonel, continued: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a mercy for you I&rsquo;m not
      by nature as bloodthirsty as some of my friends here. And it&rsquo;s the devil&rsquo;s
      own labour I&rsquo;ve had to prevail upon them not to be vindictive. I doubt if
      ye&rsquo;re worth the pains I&rsquo;ve taken for you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was lying. He had no doubt at all. Had he followed his own wishes and
      instincts, he would certainly have strung the Colonel up, and accounted it
      a meritorious deed. It was the thought of Arabella Bishop that had urged
      him to mercy, and had led him to oppose the natural vindictiveness of his
      fellow-slaves until he had been in danger of precipitating a mutiny. It
      was entirely to the fact that the Colonel was her uncle, although he did
      not even begin to suspect such a cause, that he owed such mercy as was now
      being shown him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall have a chance to swim for it,&rdquo; Peter Blood continued. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not
      above a quarter of a mile to the headland yonder, and with ordinary luck
      ye should manage it. Faith, you&rsquo;re fat enough to float. Come on! Now,
      don&rsquo;t be hesitating or it&rsquo;s a long voyage ye&rsquo;ll be going with us, and the
      devil knows what may happen to you. You&rsquo;re not loved any more than you
      deserve.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop mastered himself, and rose. A merciless despot, who had
      never known the need for restraint in all these years, he was doomed by
      ironic fate to practise restraint in the very moment when his feelings had
      reached their most violent intensity.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood gave an order. A plank was run out over the gunwale, and
      lashed down.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you please, Colonel,&rdquo; said he, with a graceful flourish of invitation.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Colonel looked at him, and there was hell in his glance. Then, taking
      his resolve, and putting the best face upon it, since no other could help
      him here, he kicked off his shoes, peeled off his fine coat of
      biscuit-coloured taffetas, and climbed upon the plank.
    </p>
    <p>
      A moment he paused, steadied by a hand that clutched the ratlines, looking
      down in terror at the green water rushing past some five-and-twenty feet
      below.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just take a little walk, Colonel, darling,&rdquo; said a smooth, mocking voice
      behind him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Still clinging, Colonel Bishop looked round in hesitation, and saw the
      bulwarks lined with swarthy faces&mdash;the faces of men that as lately as
      yesterday would have turned pale under his frown, faces that were now all
      wickedly agrin.
    </p>
    <p>
      For a moment rage stamped out his fear. He cursed them aloud venomously
      and incoherently, then loosed his hold and stepped out upon the plank.
      Three steps he took before he lost his balance and went tumbling into the
      green depths below.
    </p>
    <p>
      When he came to the surface again, gasping for air, the Cinco Llagas was
      already some furlongs to leeward. But the roaring cheer of mocking
      valediction from the rebels-convict reached him across the water, to drive
      the iron of impotent rage deeper into his soul.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0010" id="link2HCH0010">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER X. DON DIEGO
    </h2>
    <p>
      Don Diego de Espinosa y Valdez awoke, and with languid eyes in aching
      head, he looked round the cabin, which was flooded with sunlight from the
      square windows astern. Then he uttered a moan, and closed his eyes again,
      impelled to this by the monstrous ache in his head. Lying thus, he
      attempted to think, to locate himself in time and space. But between the
      pain in his head and the confusion in his mind, he found coherent thought
      impossible.
    </p>
    <p>
      An indefinite sense of alarm drove him to open his eyes again, and once
      more to consider his surroundings.
    </p>
    <p>
      There could be no doubt that he lay in the great cabin of his own ship,
      the Cinco Llagas, so that his vague disquiet must be, surely, ill-founded.
      And yet, stirrings of memory coming now to the assistance of reflection,
      compelled him uneasily to insist that here something was not as it should
      be. The low position of the sun, flooding the cabin with golden light from
      those square ports astern, suggested to him at first that it was early
      morning, on the assumption that the vessel was headed westward. Then the
      alternative occurred to him. They might be sailing eastward, in which case
      the time of day would be late afternoon. That they were sailing he could
      feel from the gentle forward heave of the vessel under him. But how did
      they come to be sailing, and he, the master, not to know whether their
      course lay east or west, not to be able to recollect whither they were
      bound?
    </p>
    <p>
      His mind went back over the adventure of yesterday, if of yesterday it
      was. He was clear on the matter of the easily successful raid upon the
      Island of Barbados; every detail stood vividly in his memory up to the
      moment at which, returning aboard, he had stepped on to his own deck
      again. There memory abruptly and inexplicably ceased.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was beginning to torture his mind with conjecture, when the door
      opened, and to Don Diego&rsquo;s increasing mystification he beheld his best
      suit of clothes step into the cabin. It was a singularly elegant and
      characteristically Spanish suit of black taffetas with silver lace that
      had been made for him a year ago in Cadiz, and he knew each detail of it
      so well that it was impossible he could now be mistaken.
    </p>
    <p>
      The suit paused to close the door, then advanced towards the couch on
      which Don Diego was extended, and inside the suit came a tall, slender
      gentleman of about Don Diego&rsquo;s own height and shape. Seeing the wide,
      startled eyes of the Spaniard upon him, the gentleman lengthened his
      stride.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Awake, eh?&rdquo; said he in Spanish.
    </p>
    <p>
      The recumbent man looked up bewildered into a pair of light-blue eyes that
      regarded him out of a tawny, sardonic face set in a cluster of black
      ringlets. But he was too bewildered to make any answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      The stranger&rsquo;s fingers touched the top of Don Diego&rsquo;s head, whereupon Don
      Diego winced and cried out in pain.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Tender, eh?&rdquo; said the stranger. He took Don Diego&rsquo;s wrist between thumb
      and second finger. And then, at last, the intrigued Spaniard spoke.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you a doctor?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Among other things.&rdquo; The swarthy gentleman continued his study of the
      patient&rsquo;s pulse. &ldquo;Firm and regular,&rdquo; he announced at last, and dropped the
      wrist. &ldquo;You&rsquo;ve taken no great harm.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Don Diego struggled up into a sitting position on the red velvet couch.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who the devil are you?&rdquo; he asked. &ldquo;And what the devil are you doing in my
      clothes and aboard my ship?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The level black eyebrows went up, a faint smile curled the lips of the
      long mouth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are still delirious, I fear. This is not your ship. This is my ship,
      and these are my clothes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your ship?&rdquo; quoth the other, aghast, and still more aghast he added:
      &ldquo;Your clothes? But... then....&rdquo; Wildly his eyes looked about him. They
      scanned the cabin once again, scrutinizing each familiar object. &ldquo;Am I
      mad?&rdquo; he asked at last. &ldquo;Surely this ship is the Cinco Llagas?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The Cinco Llagas it is.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then....&rdquo; The Spaniard broke off. His glance grew still more troubled.
      &ldquo;Valga me Dios!&rdquo; he cried out, like a man in anguish. &ldquo;Will you tell me
      also that you are Don Diego de Espinosa?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, no, my name is Blood&mdash;Captain Peter Blood. This ship, like this
      handsome suit of clothes, is mine by right of conquest. Just as you, Don
      Diego, are my prisoner.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Startling as was the explanation, yet it proved soothing to Don Diego,
      being so much less startling than the things he was beginning to imagine.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But... Are you not Spanish, then?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You flatter my Castilian accent. I have the honour to be Irish. You were
      thinking that a miracle had happened. So it has&mdash;a miracle wrought by
      my genius, which is considerable.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Succinctly now Captain Blood dispelled the mystery by a relation of the
      facts. It was a narrative that painted red and white by turns the
      Spaniard&rsquo;s countenance. He put a hand to the back of his head, and there
      discovered, in confirmation of the story, a lump as large as a pigeon&rsquo;s
      egg. Lastly, he stared wild-eyed at the sardonic Captain Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And my son? What of my son?&rdquo; he cried out. &ldquo;He was in the boat that
      brought me aboard.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your son is safe; he and the boat&rsquo;s crew together with your gunner and
      his men are snugly in irons under hatches.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Don Diego sank back on the couch, his glittering dark eyes fixed upon the
      tawny face above him. He composed himself. After all, he possessed the
      stoicism proper to his desperate trade. The dice had fallen against him in
      this venture. The tables had been turned upon him in the very moment of
      success. He accepted the situation with the fortitude of a fatalist.
    </p>
    <p>
      With the utmost calm he enquired:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And now, Senior Capitan?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And now,&rdquo; said Captain Blood&mdash;to give him the title he had assumed&mdash;&ldquo;being
      a humane man, I am sorry to find that ye&rsquo;re not dead from the tap we gave
      you. For it means that you&rsquo;ll be put to the trouble of dying all over
      again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah!&rdquo; Don Diego drew a deep breath. &ldquo;But is that necessary?&rdquo; he asked,
      without apparent perturbation.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood&rsquo;s blue eyes approved his bearing. &ldquo;Ask yourself,&rdquo; said he.
      &ldquo;Tell me, as an experienced and bloody pirate, what in my place would you
      do, yourself?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah, but there is a difference.&rdquo; Don Diego sat up to argue the matter. &ldquo;It
      lies in the fact that you boast yourself a humane man.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood perched himself on the edge of the long oak table. &ldquo;But I am
      not a fool,&rdquo; said he, &ldquo;and I&rsquo;ll not allow a natural Irish sentimentality
      to stand in the way of my doing what is necessary and proper. You and your
      ten surviving scoundrels are a menace on this ship. More than that, she is
      none so well found in water and provisions. True, we are fortunately a
      small number, but you and your party inconveniently increase it. So that
      on every hand, you see, prudence suggests to us that we should deny
      ourselves the pleasure of your company, and, steeling our soft hearts to
      the inevitable, invite you to be so obliging as to step over the side.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see,&rdquo; said the Spaniard pensively. He swung his legs from the couch,
      and sat now upon the edge of it, his elbows on his knees. He had taken the
      measure of his man, and met him with a mock-urbanity and a suave
      detachment that matched his own. &ldquo;I confess,&rdquo; he admitted, &ldquo;that there is
      much force in what you say.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You take a load from my mind,&rdquo; said Captain Blood. &ldquo;I would not appear
      unnecessarily harsh, especially since I and my friends owe you so very
      much. For, whatever it may have been to others, to us your raid upon
      Barbados was most opportune. I am glad, therefore, that you agree the I
      have no choice.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But, my friend, I did not agree so much.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If there is any alternative that you can suggest, I shall be most happy
      to consider it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Don Diego stroked his pointed black beard.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Can you give me until morning for reflection? My head aches so damnably
      that I am incapable of thought. And this, you will admit, is a matter that
      asks serious thought.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood stood up. From a shelf he took a half-hour glass, reversed
      it so that the bulb containing the red sand was uppermost, and stood it on
      the table.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sorry to press you in such a matter, Don Diego, but one glass is all
      that I can give you. If by the time those sands have run out you can
      propose no acceptable alternative, I shall most reluctantly be driven to
      ask you to go over the side with your friends.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood bowed, went out, and locked the door. Elbows on his knees
      and face in his hands, Don Diego sat watching the rusty sands as they
      filtered from the upper to the lower bulb. And what time he watched, the
      lines in his lean brown face grew deeper. Punctually as the last grains
      ran out, the door reopened.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Spaniard sighed, and sat upright to face the returning Captain Blood
      with the answer for which he came.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have thought of an alternative, sir captain; but it depends upon your
      charity. It is that you put us ashore on one of the islands of this
      pestilent archipelago, and leave us to shift for ourselves.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood pursed his lips. &ldquo;It has its difficulties,&rdquo; said he slowly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I feared it would be so.&rdquo; Don Diego sighed again, and stood up. &ldquo;Let us
      say no more.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The light-blue eyes played over him like points of steel.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are not afraid to die, Don Diego?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Spaniard threw back his head, a frown between his eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The question is offensive, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then let me put it in another way&mdash;perhaps more happily: You do not
      desire to live?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah, that I can answer. I do desire to live; and even more do I desire
      that my son may live. But the desire shall not make a coward of me for
      your amusement, master mocker.&rdquo; It was the first sign he had shown of the
      least heat or resentment.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood did not directly answer. As before he perched himself on the
      corner of the table.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Would you be willing, sir, to earn life and liberty&mdash;for yourself,
      your son, and the other Spaniards who are on board?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To earn it?&rdquo; said Don Diego, and the watchful blue eyes did not miss the
      quiver that ran through him. &ldquo;To earn it, do you say? Why, if the service
      you would propose is one that cannot hurt my honour....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Could I be guilty of that?&rdquo; protested the Captain. &ldquo;I realize that even a
      pirate has his honour.&rdquo; And forthwith he propounded his offer. &ldquo;If you
      will look from those windows, Don Diego, you will see what appears to be a
      cloud on the horizon. That is the island of Barbados well astern. All day
      we have been sailing east before the wind with but one intent&mdash;to set
      as great a distance between Barbados and ourselves as possible. But now,
      almost out of sight of land, we are in a difficulty. The only man among us
      schooled in the art of navigation is fevered, delirious, in fact, as a
      result of certain ill-treatment he received ashore before we carried him
      away with us. I can handle a ship in action, and there are one or two men
      aboard who can assist me; but of the higher mysteries of seamanship and of
      the art of finding a way over the trackless wastes of ocean, we know
      nothing. To hug the land, and go blundering about what you so aptly call
      this pestilent archipelago, is for us to court disaster, as you can
      perhaps conceive. And so it comes to this: We desire to make for the Dutch
      settlement of Curacao as straightly as possible. Will you pledge me your
      honour, if I release you upon parole, that you will navigate us thither?
      If so, we will release you and your surviving men upon arrival there.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Don Diego bowed his head upon his breast, and strode away in thought to
      the stern windows. There he stood looking out upon the sunlit sea and the
      dead water in the great ship&rsquo;s wake&mdash;his ship, which these English
      dogs had wrested from him; his ship, which he was asked to bring safely
      into a port where she would be completely lost to him and refitted perhaps
      to make war upon his kin. That was in one scale; in the other were the
      lives of sixteen men. Fourteen of them mattered little to him, but the
      remaining two were his own and his son&rsquo;s.
    </p>
    <p>
      He turned at length, and his back being to the light, the Captain could
      not see how pale his face had grown.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I accept,&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0011" id="link2HCH0011">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XI. FILIAL PIETY
    </h2>
    <p>
      By virtue of the pledge he had given, Don Diego de Espinosa enjoyed the
      freedom of the ship that had been his, and the navigation which he had
      undertaken was left entirely in his hands. And because those who manned
      her were new to the seas of the Spanish Main, and because even the things
      that had happened in Bridgetown were not enough to teach them to regard
      every Spaniard as a treacherous, cruel dog to be slain at sight, they used
      him with the civility which his own suave urbanity invited. He took his
      meals in the great cabin with Blood and the three officers elected to
      support him: Hagthorpe, Wolverstone, and Dyke.
    </p>
    <p>
      They found Don Diego an agreeable, even an amusing companion, and their
      friendly feeling towards him was fostered by his fortitude and brave
      equanimity in this adversity.
    </p>
    <p>
      That Don Diego was not playing fair it was impossible to suspect.
      Moreover, there was no conceivable reason why he should not. And he had
      been of the utmost frankness with them. He had denounced their mistake in
      sailing before the wind upon leaving Barbados. They should have left the
      island to leeward, heading into the Caribbean and away from the
      archipelago. As it was, they would now be forced to pass through this
      archipelago again so as to make Curacao, and this passage was not to be
      accomplished without some measure of risk to themselves. At any point
      between the islands they might come upon an equal or superior craft;
      whether she were Spanish or English would be equally bad for them, and
      being undermanned they were in no case to fight. To lessen this risk as
      far as possible, Don Diego directed at first a southerly and then a
      westerly course; and so, taking a line midway between the islands of
      Tobago and Grenada, they won safely through the danger-zone and came into
      the comparative security of the Caribbean Sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If this wind holds,&rdquo; he told them that night at supper, after he had
      announced to them their position, &ldquo;we should reach Curacao inside three
      days.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For three days the wind held, indeed it freshened a little on the second,
      and yet when the third night descended upon them they had still made no
      landfall. The Cinco Llagas was ploughing through a sea contained on every
      side by the blue bowl of heaven. Captain Blood uneasily mentioned it to
      Don Diego.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It will be for to-morrow morning,&rdquo; he was answered with calm conviction.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By all the saints, it is always &lsquo;to-morrow morning&rsquo; with you Spaniards;
      and to-morrow never comes, my friend.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But this to-morrow is coming, rest assured. However early you may be
      astir, you shall see land ahead, Don Pedro.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood passed on, content, and went to visit Jerry Pitt, his
      patient, to whose condition Don Diego owed his chance of life. For
      twenty-four hours now the fever had left the sufferer, and under Peter
      Blood&rsquo;s dressings, his lacerated back was beginning to heal
      satisfactorily. So far, indeed, was he recovered that he complained of his
      confinement, of the heat in his cabin. To indulge him Captain Blood
      consented that he should take the air on deck, and so, as the last of the
      daylight was fading from the sky, Jeremy Pitt came forth upon the
      Captain&rsquo;s arm.
    </p>
    <p>
      Seated on the hatch-coamings, the Somersetshire lad gratefully filled his
      lungs with the cool night air, and professed himself revived thereby. Then
      with the seaman&rsquo;s instinct his eyes wandered to the darkling vault of
      heaven, spangled already with a myriad golden points of light. Awhile he
      scanned it idly, vacantly; then, his attention became sharply fixed. He
      looked round and up at Captain Blood, who stood beside him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;D&rsquo;ye know anything of astronomy, Peter?&rdquo; quoth he.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Astronomy, is it? Faith, now, I couldn&rsquo;t tell the Belt of Orion from the
      Girdle of Venus.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah! And I suppose all the others of this lubberly crew share your
      ignorance.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It would be more amiable of you to suppose that they exceed it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Jeremy pointed ahead to a spot of light in the heavens over the starboard
      bow. &ldquo;That is the North Star,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it now? Glory be, I wonder ye can pick it out from the rest.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And the North Star ahead almost over your starboard bow means that we&rsquo;re
      steering a course, north, northwest, or maybe north by west, for I doubt
      if we are standing more than ten degrees westward.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And why shouldn&rsquo;t we?&rdquo; wondered Captain Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You told me&mdash;didn&rsquo;t you?&mdash;that we came west of the archipelago
      between Tobago and Grenada, steering for Curacao. If that were our present
      course, we should have the North Star abeam, out yonder.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      On the instant Mr. Blood shed his laziness. He stiffened with
      apprehension, and was about to speak when a shaft of light clove the gloom
      above their heads, coming from the door of the poop cabin which had just
      been opened. It closed again, and presently there was a step on the
      companion. Don Diego was approaching. Captain Blood&rsquo;s fingers pressed
      Jerry&rsquo;s shoulder with significance. Then he called the Don, and spoke to
      him in English as had become his custom when others were present.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will ye settle a slight dispute for us, Don Diego?&rdquo; said he lightly. &ldquo;We
      are arguing, Mr. Pitt and I, as to which is the North Star.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So?&rdquo; The Spaniard&rsquo;s tone was easy; there was almost a suggestion that
      laughter lurked behind it, and the reason for this was yielded by his next
      sentence. &ldquo;But you tell me Mr. Pitt he is your navigant?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For lack of a better,&rdquo; laughed the Captain, good-humouredly contemptuous.
      &ldquo;Now I am ready to wager him a hundred pieces of eight that that is the
      North Star.&rdquo; And he flung out an arm towards a point of light in the
      heavens straight abeam. He afterwards told Pitt that had Don Diego
      confirmed him, he would have run him through upon that instant. Far from
      that, however, the Spaniard freely expressed his scorn.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have the assurance that is of ignorance, Don Pedro; and you lose. The
      North Star is this one.&rdquo; And he indicated it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are sure?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But my dear Don Pedro!&rdquo; The Spaniard&rsquo;s tone was one of amused protest.
      &ldquo;But is it possible that I mistake? Besides, is there not the compass?
      Come to the binnacle and see there what course we make.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His utter frankness, and the easy manner of one who has nothing to conceal
      resolved at once the doubt that had leapt so suddenly in the mind of
      Captain Blood. Pitt was satisfied less easily.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In that case, Don Diego, will you tell me, since Curacao is our
      destination, why our course is what it is?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Again there was no faintest hesitation on Don Diego&rsquo;s part. &ldquo;You have
      reason to ask,&rdquo; said he, and sighed. &ldquo;I had hope&rsquo; it would not be
      observe&rsquo;. I have been careless&mdash;oh, of a carelessness very culpable.
      I neglect observation. Always it is my way. I make too sure. I count too
      much on dead reckoning. And so to-day I find when at last I take out the
      quadrant that we do come by a half-degree too much south, so that Curacao
      is now almost due north. That is what cause the delay. But we will be
      there to-morrow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The explanation, so completely satisfactory, and so readily and candidly
      forthcoming, left no room for further doubt that Don Diego should have
      been false to his parole. And when presently Don Diego had withdrawn
      again, Captain Blood confessed to Pitt that it was absurd to have
      suspected him. Whatever his antecedents, he had proved his quality when he
      announced himself ready to die sooner than enter into any undertaking that
      could hurt his honour or his country.
    </p>
    <p>
      New to the seas of the Spanish Main and to the ways of the adventurers who
      sailed it, Captain Blood still entertained illusions. But the next dawn
      was to shatter them rudely and for ever.
    </p>
    <p>
      Coming on deck before the sun was up, he saw land ahead, as the Spaniard
      had promised them last night. Some ten miles ahead it lay, a long
      coast-line filling the horizon east and west, with a massive headland
      jutting forward straight before them. Staring at it, he frowned. He had
      not conceived that Curacao was of such considerable dimensions. Indeed,
      this looked less like an island than the main itself.
    </p>
    <p>
      Beating out aweather, against the gentle landward breeze he beheld a great
      ship on their starboard bow, that he conceived to be some three or four
      miles off, and&mdash;as well as he could judge her at that distance&mdash;of
      a tonnage equal if not superior to their own. Even as he watched her she
      altered her course, and going about came heading towards them,
      close-hauled.
    </p>
    <p>
      A dozen of his fellows were astir on the forecastle, looking eagerly
      ahead, and the sound of their voices and laughter reached him across the
      length of the stately Cinco Llagas.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There,&rdquo; said a soft voice behind him in liquid Spanish, &ldquo;is the Promised
      Land, Don Pedro.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was something in that voice, a muffled note of exultation, that awoke
      suspicion in him, and made whole the half-doubt he had been entertaining.
      He turned sharply to face Don Diego, so sharply that the sly smile was not
      effaced from the Spaniard&rsquo;s countenance before Captain Blood&rsquo;s eyes had
      flashed upon it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You find an odd satisfaction in the sight of it&mdash;all things
      considered,&rdquo; said Mr. Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of course.&rdquo; The Spaniard rubbed his hands, and Mr. Blood observed that
      they were unsteady. &ldquo;The satisfaction of a mariner.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Or of a traitor&mdash;which?&rdquo; Blood asked him quietly. And as the
      Spaniard fell back before him with suddenly altered countenance that
      confirmed his every suspicion, he flung an arm out in the direction of the
      distant shore. &ldquo;What land is that?&rdquo; he demanded. &ldquo;Will you have the
      effrontery to tell me that is the coast of Curacao?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He advanced upon Don Diego suddenly, and Don Diego, step by step, fell
      back. &ldquo;Shall I tell you what land it is? Shall I?&rdquo; His fierce assumption
      of knowledge seemed to dazzle and daze the Spaniard. For still Don Diego
      made no answer. And then Captain Blood drew a bow at a venture&mdash;or
      not quite at a venture. Such a coast-line as that, if not of the main
      itself, and the main he knew it could not be, must belong to either Cuba
      or Hispaniola. Now knowing Cuba to lie farther north and west of the two,
      it followed, he reasoned swiftly, that if Don Diego meant betrayal he
      would steer for the nearer of these Spanish territories. &ldquo;That land, you
      treacherous, forsworn Spanish dog, is the island of Hispaniola.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Having said it, he closely watched the swarthy face now overspread with
      pallor, to see the truth or falsehood of his guess reflected there. But
      now the retreating Spaniard had come to the middle of the quarter-deck,
      where the mizzen sail made a screen to shut them off from the eyes of the
      Englishmen below. His lips writhed in a snarling smile.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah, perro ingles! You know too much,&rdquo; he said under his breath, and
      sprang for the Captain&rsquo;s throat.
    </p>
    <p>
      Tight-locked in each other&rsquo;s arms, they swayed a moment, then together
      went down upon the deck, the Spaniard&rsquo;s feet jerked from under him by the
      right leg of Captain Blood. The Spaniard had depended upon his strength,
      which was considerable. But it proved no match for the steady muscles of
      the Irishman, tempered of late by the vicissitudes of slavery. He had
      depended upon choking the life out of Blood, and so gaining the half-hour
      that might be necessary to bring up that fine ship that was beating
      towards them&mdash;a Spanish ship, perforce, since none other would be so
      boldly cruising in these Spanish waters off Hispaniola. But all that Don
      Diego had accomplished was to betray himself completely, and to no
      purpose. This he realized when he found himself upon his back, pinned down
      by Blood, who was kneeling on his chest, whilst the men summoned by their
      Captain&rsquo;s shout came clattering up the companion.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will I say a prayer for your dirty soul now, whilst I am in this
      position?&rdquo; Captain Blood was furiously mocking him.
    </p>
    <p>
      But the Spaniard, though defeated, now beyond hope for himself, forced his
      lips to smile, and gave back mockery for mockery.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who will pray for your soul, I wonder, when that galleon comes to lie
      board and board with you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That galleon!&rdquo; echoed Captain Blood with sudden and awful realization
      that already it was too late to avoid the consequences of Don Diego&rsquo;s
      betrayal of them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That galleon,&rdquo; Don Diego repeated, and added with a deepening sneer: &ldquo;Do
      you know what ship it is? I will tell you. It is the Encarnacion, the
      flagship of Don Miguel de Espinosa, the Lord Admiral of Castile, and Don
      Miguel is my brother. It is a very fortunate encounter. The Almighty, you
      see, watches over the destinies of Catholic Spain.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was no trace of humour or urbanity now in Captain Blood. His light
      eyes blazed: his face was set.
    </p>
    <p>
      He rose, relinquishing the Spaniard to his men. &ldquo;Make him fast,&rdquo; he bade
      them. &ldquo;Truss him, wrist and heel, but don&rsquo;t hurt him&mdash;not so much as
      a hair of his precious head.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The injunction was very necessary. Frenzied by the thought that they were
      likely to exchange the slavery from which they had so lately escaped for a
      slavery still worse, they would have torn the Spaniard limb from limb upon
      the spot. And if they now obeyed their Captain and refrained, it was only
      because the sudden steely note in his voice promised for Don Diego Valdez
      something far more exquisite than death.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You scum! You dirty pirate! You man of honour!&rdquo; Captain Blood
      apostrophized his prisoner.
    </p>
    <p>
      But Don Diego looked up at him and laughed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You underrated me.&rdquo; He spoke English, so that all might hear. &ldquo;I tell you
      that I was not fear death, and I show you that I was not fear it. You no
      understand. You just an English dog.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Irish, if you please,&rdquo; Captain Blood corrected him. &ldquo;And your parole, you
      tyke of Spain?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You think I give my parole to leave you sons of filth with this beautiful
      Spanish ship, to go make war upon other Spaniards! Ha!&rdquo; Don Diego laughed
      in his throat. &ldquo;You fool! You can kill me. Pish! It is very well. I die
      with my work well done. In less than an hour you will be the prisoners of
      Spain, and the Cinco Llagas will go belong to Spain again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood regarded him steadily out of a face which, if impassive, had
      paled under its deep tan. About the prisoner, clamant, infuriated,
      ferocious, the rebels-convict surged, almost literally &ldquo;athirst for his
      blood.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait,&rdquo; Captain Blood imperiously commanded, and turning on his heel, he
      went aside to the rail. As he stood there deep in thought, he was joined
      by Hagthorpe, Wolverstone, and Ogle the gunner. In silence they stared
      with him across the water at that other ship. She had veered a point away
      from the wind, and was running now on a line that must in the end converge
      with that of the Cinco Llagas.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In less than half-an-hour,&rdquo; said Blood presently, &ldquo;we shall have her
      athwart our hawse, sweeping our decks with her guns.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We can fight,&rdquo; said the one-eyed giant with an oath.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Fight!&rdquo; sneered Blood. &ldquo;Undermanned as we are, mustering a bare twenty
      men, in what case are we to fight? No, there would be only one way. To
      persuade her that all is well aboard, that we are Spaniards, so that she
      may leave us to continue on our course.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And how is that possible?&rdquo; Hagthorpe asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It isn&rsquo;t possible,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;If it....&rdquo; And then he broke off, and
      stood musing, his eyes upon the green water. Ogle, with a bent for
      sarcasm, interposed a suggestion bitterly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We might send Don Diego de Espinosa in a boat manned by his Spaniards to
      assure his brother the Admiral that we are all loyal subjects of his
      Catholic Majesty.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Captain swung round, and for an instant looked as if he would have
      struck the gunner. Then his expression changed: the light of inspiration
      Was in his glance.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Bedad! ye&rsquo;ve said it. He doesn&rsquo;t fear death, this damned pirate; but his
      son may take a different view. Filial piety&rsquo;s mighty strong in Spain.&rdquo; He
      swung on his heel abruptly, and strode back to the knot of men about his
      prisoner. &ldquo;Here!&rdquo; he shouted to them. &ldquo;Bring him below.&rdquo; And he led the
      way down to the waist, and thence by the booby hatch to the gloom of the
      &lsquo;tween-decks, where the air was rank with the smell of tar and spun yarn.
      Going aft he threw open the door of the spacious wardroom, and went in
      followed by a dozen of the hands with the pinioned Spaniard. Every man
      aboard would have followed him but for his sharp command to some of them
      to remain on deck with Hagthorpe.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the ward-room the three stern chasers were in position, loaded, their
      muzzles thrusting through the open ports, precisely as the Spanish gunners
      had left them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Here, Ogle, is work for you,&rdquo; said Blood, and as the burly gunner came
      thrusting forward through the little throng of gaping men, Blood pointed
      to the middle chaser; &ldquo;Have that gun hauled back,&rdquo; he ordered.
    </p>
    <p>
      When this was done, Blood beckoned those who held Don Diego.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lash him across the mouth of it,&rdquo; he bade them, and whilst, assisted by
      another two, they made haste to obey, he turned to the others. &ldquo;To the
      roundhouse, some of you, and fetch the Spanish prisoners. And you, Dyke,
      go up and bid them set the flag of Spain aloft.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Don Diego, with his body stretched in an arc across the cannon&rsquo;s mouth,
      legs and arms lashed to the carriage on either side of it, eyeballs
      rolling in his head, glared maniacally at Captain Blood. A man may not
      fear to die, and yet be appalled by the form in which death comes to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      From frothing lips he hurled blasphemies and insults at his tormentor.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Foul barbarian! Inhuman savage! Accursed heretic! Will it not content you
      to kill me in some Christian fashion?&rdquo; Captain Blood vouchsafed him a
      malignant smile, before he turned to meet the fifteen manacled Spanish
      prisoners, who were thrust into his presence.
    </p>
    <p>
      Approaching, they had heard Don Diego&rsquo;s outcries; at close quarters now
      they beheld with horror-stricken eyes his plight. From amongst them a
      comely, olive-skinned stripling, distinguished in bearing and apparel from
      his companions, started forward with an anguished cry of &ldquo;Father!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Writhing in the arms that made haste to seize and hold him, he called upon
      heaven and hell to avert this horror, and lastly, addressed to Captain
      Blood an appeal for mercy that was at once fierce and piteous. Considering
      him, Captain Blood thought with satisfaction that he displayed the proper
      degree of filial piety.
    </p>
    <p>
      He afterwards confessed that for a moment he was in danger of weakening,
      that for a moment his mind rebelled against the pitiless thing it had
      planned. But to correct the sentiment he evoked a memory of what these
      Spaniards had performed in Bridgetown. Again he saw the white face of that
      child Mary Traill as she fled in horror before the jeering ruffian whom he
      had slain, and other things even more unspeakable seen on that dreadful
      evening rose now before the eyes of his memory to stiffen his faltering
      purpose. The Spaniards had shown themselves without mercy or sentiment or
      decency of any kind; stuffed with religion, they were without a spark of
      that Christianity, the Symbol of which was mounted on the mainmast of the
      approaching ship. A moment ago this cruel, vicious Don Diego had insulted
      the Almighty by his assumption that He kept a specially benevolent watch
      over the destinies of Catholic Spain. Don Diego should be taught his
      error.
    </p>
    <p>
      Recovering the cynicism in which he had approached his task, the cynicism
      essential to its proper performance, he commanded Ogle to kindle a match
      and remove the leaden apron from the touch-hole of the gun that bore Don
      Diego. Then, as the younger Espinosa broke into fresh intercessions
      mingled with imprecations, he wheeled upon him sharply.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Peace!&rdquo; he snapped. &ldquo;Peace, and listen! It is no part of my intention to
      blow your father to hell as he deserves, or indeed to take his life at
      all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Having surprised the lad into silence by that promise&mdash;a promise
      surprising enough in all the circumstances&mdash;he proceeded to explain
      his aims in that faultless and elegant Castilian of which he was
      fortunately master&mdash;as fortunately for Don Diego as for himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is your father&rsquo;s treachery that has brought us into this plight and
      deliberately into risk of capture and death aboard that ship of Spain.
      Just as your father recognized his brother&rsquo;s flagship, so will his brother
      have recognized the Cinco Llagas. So far, then, all is well. But presently
      the Encarnacion will be sufficiently close to perceive that here all is
      not as it should be. Sooner or later, she must guess or discover what is
      wrong, and then she will open fire or lay us board and board. Now, we are
      in no case to fight, as your father knew when he ran us into this trap.
      But fight we will, if we are driven to it. We make no tame surrender to
      the ferocity of Spain.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He laid his hand on the breech of the gun that bore Don Diego.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Understand this clearly: to the first shot from the Encarnacion this gun
      will fire the answer. I make myself clear, I hope?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      White-faced and trembling, young Espinosa stared into the pitiless blue
      eyes that so steadily regarded him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If it is clear?&rdquo; he faltered, breaking the utter silence in which all
      were standing. &ldquo;But, name of God, how should it be clear? How should I
      understand? Can you avert the fight? If you know a way, and if I, or
      these, can help you to it&mdash;if that is what you mean&mdash;in Heaven&rsquo;s
      name let me hear it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A fight would be averted if Don Diego de Espinosa were to go aboard his
      brother&rsquo;s ship, and by his presence and assurances inform the Admiral that
      all is well with the Cinco Llagas, that she is indeed still a ship of
      Spain as her flag now announces. But of course Don Diego cannot go in
      person, because he is... otherwise engaged. He has a slight touch of fever&mdash;shall
      we say?&mdash;that detains him in his cabin. But you, his son, may convey
      all this and some other matters together with his homage to your uncle.
      You shall go in a boat manned by six of these Spanish prisoners, and I&mdash;a
      distinguished Spaniard delivered from captivity in Barbados by your recent
      raid&mdash;will accompany you to keep you in countenance. If I return
      alive, and without accident of any kind to hinder our free sailing hence,
      Don Diego shall have his life, as shall every one of you. But if there is
      the least misadventure, be it from treachery or ill-fortune&mdash;I care
      not which&mdash;the battle, as I have had the honour to explain, will be
      opened on our side by this gun, and your father will be the first victim
      of the conflict.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He paused a moment. There was a hum of approval from his comrades, an
      anxious stirring among the Spanish prisoners. Young Espinosa stood before
      him, the colour ebbing and flowing in his cheeks. He waited for some
      direction from his father. But none came. Don Diego&rsquo;s courage, it seemed,
      had sadly waned under that rude test. He hung limply in his fearful bonds,
      and was silent. Evidently he dared not encourage his son to defiance, and
      presumably was ashamed to urge him to yield. Thus, he left decision
      entirely with the youth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Come,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;I have been clear enough, I think. What do you say?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Don Esteban moistened his parched lips, and with the back of his hand
      mopped the anguish-sweat from his brow. His eyes gazed wildly a moment
      upon the shoulders of his father, as if beseeching guidance. But his
      father remained silent. Something like a sob escaped the boy.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I... I accept,&rdquo; he answered at last, and swung to the Spaniards. &ldquo;And you&mdash;you
      will accept too,&rdquo; he insisted passionately. &ldquo;For Don Diego&rsquo;s sake and for
      your own&mdash;for all our sakes. If you do not, this man will butcher us
      all without mercy.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Since he yielded, and their leader himself counselled no resistance, why
      should they encompass their own destruction by a gesture of futile
      heroism? They answered without much hesitation that they would do as was
      required of them.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood turned, and advanced to Don Diego.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sorry to inconvenience you in this fashion, but...&rdquo; For a second he
      checked and frowned as his eyes intently observed the prisoner. Then,
      after that scarcely perceptible pause, he continued, &ldquo;but I do not think
      that you have anything beyond this inconvenience to apprehend, and you may
      depend upon me to shorten it as far as possible.&rdquo; Don Diego made him no
      answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood waited a moment, observing him; then he bowed and stepped
      back.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0012" id="link2HCH0012">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XII. DON PEDRO SANGRE
    </h2>
    <p>
      The Cinco Llagas and the Encarnacion, after a proper exchange of signals,
      lay hove to within a quarter of a mile of each other, and across the
      intervening space of gently heaving, sunlit waters sped a boat from the
      former, manned by six Spanish seamen and bearing in her stern sheets Don
      Esteban de Espinosa and Captain Peter Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      She also bore two treasure-chests containing fifty thousand pieces of
      eight. Gold has at all times been considered the best of testimonies of
      good faith, and Blood was determined that in all respects appearances
      should be entirely on his side. His followers had accounted this a
      supererogation of pretence. But Blood&rsquo;s will in the matter had prevailed.
      He carried further a bulky package addressed to a grande of Spain, heavily
      sealed with the arms of Espinosa&mdash;another piece of evidence hastily
      manufactured in the cabin of the Cinco Llagas&mdash;and he was spending
      these last moments in completing his instructions to his young companion.
    </p>
    <p>
      Don Esteban expressed his last lingering uneasiness:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But if you should betray yourself?&rdquo; he cried.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It will be unfortunate for everybody. I advised your father to say a
      prayer for our success. I depend upon you to help me more materially.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will do my best. God knows I will do my best,&rdquo; the boy protested.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood nodded thoughtfully, and no more was said until they bumped
      alongside the towering mass of the Encarnadon. Up the ladder went Don
      Esteban closely followed by Captain Blood. In the waist stood the Admiral
      himself to receive them, a handsome, self-sufficient man, very tall and
      stiff, a little older and greyer than Don Diego, whom he closely
      resembled. He was supported by four officers and a friar in the black and
      white habit of St. Dominic.
    </p>
    <p>
      Don Miguel opened his arms to his nephew, whose lingering panic he mistook
      for pleasurable excitement, and having enfolded him to his bosom turned to
      greet Don Esteban&rsquo;s companion.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood bowed gracefully, entirely at his ease, so far as might be
      judged from appearances.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am,&rdquo; he announced, making a literal translation of his name, &ldquo;Don Pedro
      Sangre, an unfortunate gentleman of Leon, lately delivered from captivity
      by Don Esteban&rsquo;s most gallant father.&rdquo; And in a few words he sketched the
      imagined conditions of his capture by, and deliverance from, those
      accursed heretics who held the island of Barbados. &ldquo;Benedicamus Domino,&rdquo;
       said the friar to his tale.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ex hoc nunc et usque in seculum,&rdquo; replied Blood, the occasional papist,
      with lowered eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Admiral and his attending officers gave him a sympathetic hearing and
      a cordial welcome. Then came the dreaded question.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But where is my brother? Why has he not come, himself, to greet me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was young Espinosa who answered this:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My father is afflicted at denying himself that honour and pleasure. But
      unfortunately, sir uncle, he is a little indisposed&mdash;oh, nothing
      grave; merely sufficient to make him keep his cabin. It is a little fever,
      the result of a slight wound taken in the recent raid upon Barbados, which
      resulted in this gentleman&rsquo;s happy deliverance.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nay, nephew, nay,&rdquo; Don Miguel protested with ironic repudiation. &ldquo;I can
      have no knowledge of these things. I have the honour to represent upon the
      seas His Catholic Majesty, who is at peace with the King of England.
      Already you have told me more than it is good for me to know. I will
      endeavour to forget it, and I will ask you, sirs,&rdquo; he added, glancing at
      his officers, &ldquo;to forget it also.&rdquo; But he winked into the twinkling eyes
      of Captain Blood; then added matter that at once extinguished that
      twinkle. &ldquo;But since Diego cannot come to me, why, I will go across to
      him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For a moment Don Esteban&rsquo;s face was a mask of pallid fear. Then Blood was
      speaking in a lowered, confidential voice that admirably blended suavity,
      impressiveness, and sly mockery.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you please, Don Miguel, but that is the very thing you must not do&mdash;the
      very thing Don Diego does not wish you to do. You must not see him until
      his wounds are healed. That is his own wish. That is the real reason why
      he is not here. For the truth is that his wounds are not so grave as to
      have prevented his coming. It was his consideration of himself and the
      false position in which you would be placed if you had direct word from
      him of what has happened. As your excellency has said, there is peace
      between His Catholic Majesty and the King of England, and your brother Don
      Diego....&rdquo; He paused a moment. &ldquo;I am sure that I need say no more. What
      you hear from us is no more than a mere rumour. Your excellency
      understands.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His excellency frowned thoughtfully. &ldquo;I understand... in part,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood had a moment&rsquo;s uneasiness. Did the Spaniard doubt his bona
      fides? Yet in dress and speech he knew himself to be impeccably Spanish,
      and was not Don Esteban there to confirm him? He swept on to afford
      further confirmation before the Admiral could say another word.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And we have in the boat below two chests containing fifty thousand pieces
      of eight, which we are to deliver to your excellency.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His excellency jumped; there was a sudden stir among his officers.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They are the ransom extracted by Don Diego from the Governor of....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not another word, in the name of Heaven!&rdquo; cried the Admiral in alarm. &ldquo;My
      brother wishes me to assume charge of this money, to carry it to Spain for
      him? Well, that is a family matter between my brother and myself. So, it
      can be done. But I must not know....&rdquo; He broke off. &ldquo;Hum! A glass of
      Malaga in my cabin, if you please,&rdquo; he invited them, &ldquo;whilst the chests
      are being hauled aboard.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He gave his orders touching the embarkation of these chests, then led the
      way to his regally appointed cabin, his four officers and the friar
      following by particular invitation.
    </p>
    <p>
      Seated at table there, with the tawny wine before them, and the servant
      who had poured it withdrawn, Don Miguel laughed and stroked his pointed,
      grizzled beard.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Virgen santisima! That brother of mine has a mind that thinks of
      everything. Left to myself, I might have committed a fine indiscretion by
      venturing aboard his ship at such a moment. I might have seen things which
      as Admiral of Spain it would be difficult for me to ignore.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Both Esteban and Blood made haste to agree with him, and then Blood raised
      his glass, and drank to the glory of Spain and the damnation of the
      besotted James who occupied the throne of England. The latter part of his
      toast was at least sincere.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Admiral laughed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sir, sir, you need my brother here to curb your imprudences. You should
      remember that His Catholic Majesty and the King of England are very good
      friends. That is not a toast to propose in this cabin. But since it has
      been proposed, and by one who has such particular personal cause to hate
      these English hounds, why, we will honour it&mdash;but unofficially.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They laughed, and drank the damnation of King James&mdash;quite
      unofficially, but the more fervently on that account. Then Don Esteban,
      uneasy on the score of his father, and remembering that the agony of Don
      Diego was being protracted with every moment that they left him in his
      dreadful position, rose and announced that they must be returning.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My father,&rdquo; he explained, &ldquo;is in haste to reach San Domingo. He desired
      me to stay no longer than necessary to embrace you. If you will give us
      leave, then, sir uncle.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In the circumstances &ldquo;sir uncle&rdquo; did not insist.
    </p>
    <p>
      As they returned to the ship&rsquo;s side, Blood&rsquo;s eyes anxiously scanned the
      line of seamen leaning over the bulwarks in idle talk with the Spaniards
      in the cock-boat that waited at the ladder&rsquo;s foot. But their manner showed
      him that there was no ground for his anxiety. The boat&rsquo;s crew had been
      wisely reticent.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Admiral took leave of them&mdash;of Esteban affectionately, of Blood
      ceremoniously.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I regret to lose you so soon, Don Pedro. I wish that you could have made
      a longer visit to the Encarnacion.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am indeed unfortunate,&rdquo; said Captain Blood politely.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But I hope that we may meet again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is to flatter me beyond all that I deserve.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They reached the boat; and she cast off from the great ship. As they were
      pulling away, the Admiral waving to them from the taffrail, they heard the
      shrill whistle of the bo&rsquo;sun piping the hands to their stations, and
      before they had reached the Cinco Llagas, they beheld the Encarnacion go
      about under sail. She dipped her flag to them, and from her poop a gun
      fired a salute.
    </p>
    <p>
      Aboard the Cinco Llagas some one&mdash;it proved afterwards to be
      Hagthorpe&mdash;had the wit to reply in the same fashion. The comedy was
      ended. Yet there was something else to follow as an epilogue, a thing that
      added a grim ironic flavour to the whole.
    </p>
    <p>
      As they stepped into the waist of the Cinco Llagas, Hagthorpe advanced to
      receive them. Blood observed the set, almost scared expression on his
      face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see that you&rsquo;ve found it,&rdquo; he said quietly.
    </p>
    <p>
      Hagthorpe&rsquo;s eyes looked a question. But his mind dismissed whatever
      thought it held.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don Diego...&rdquo; he was beginning, and then stopped, and looked curiously at
      Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      Noting the pause and the look, Esteban bounded forward, his face livid.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you broken faith, you curs? Has he come to harm?&rdquo; he cried&mdash;and
      the six Spaniards behind him grew clamorous with furious questionings.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We do not break faith,&rdquo; said Hagthorpe firmly, so firmly that he quieted
      them. &ldquo;And in this case there was not the need. Don Diego died in his
      bonds before ever you reached the Encarnacion.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood said nothing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Died?&rdquo; screamed Esteban. &ldquo;You killed him, you mean. Of what did he die?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Hagthorpe looked at the boy. &ldquo;If I am a judge,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;Don Diego died
      of fear.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Don Esteban struck Hagthorpe across the face at that, and Hagthorpe would
      have struck back, but that Blood got between, whilst his followers seized
      the lad.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let be,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;You provoked the boy by your insult to his father.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was not concerned to insult,&rdquo; said Hagthorpe, nursing his cheek. &ldquo;It is
      what has happened. Come and look.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have seen,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;He died before I left the Cinco Llagas. He was
      hanging dead in his bonds when I spoke to him before leaving.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What are you saying?&rdquo; cried Esteban.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood looked at him gravely. Yet for all his gravity he seemed almost to
      smile, though without mirth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you had known that, eh?&rdquo; he asked at last. For a moment Don Esteban
      stared at him wide-eyed, incredulous. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t believe you,&rdquo; he said at
      last.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yet you may. I am a doctor, and I know death when I see it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Again there came a pause, whilst conviction sank into the lad&rsquo;s mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I had known that,&rdquo; he said at last in a thick voice, &ldquo;you would be
      hanging from the yardarm of the Encarnacion at this moment.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I know,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;I am considering it&mdash;the profit that a man may
      find in the ignorance of others.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But you&rsquo;ll hang there yet,&rdquo; the boy raved.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood shrugged, and turned on his heel. But he did not on that
      account disregard the words, nor did Hagthorpe, nor yet the others who
      overheard them, as they showed at a council held that night in the cabin.
    </p>
    <p>
      This council was met to determine what should be done with the Spanish
      prisoners. Considering that Curacao now lay beyond their reach, as they
      were running short of water and provisions, and also that Pitt was hardly
      yet in case to undertake the navigation of the vessel, it had been decided
      that, going east of Hispaniola, and then sailing along its northern coast,
      they should make for Tortuga, that haven of the buccaneers, in which
      lawless port they had at least no danger of recapture to apprehend. It was
      now a question whether they should convey the Spaniards thither with them,
      or turn them off in a boat to make the best of their way to the coast of
      Hispaniola, which was but ten miles off. This was the course urged by
      Blood himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There&rsquo;s nothing else to be done,&rdquo; he insisted. &ldquo;In Tortuga they would be
      flayed alive.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Which is less than the swine deserve,&rdquo; growled Wolverstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And you&rsquo;ll remember, Peter,&rdquo; put in Hagthorpe, &ldquo;that boy&rsquo;s threat to you
      this morning. If he escapes, and carries word of all this to his uncle,
      the Admiral, the execution of that threat will become more than possible.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It says much for Peter Blood that the argument should have left him
      unmoved. It is a little thing, perhaps, but in a narrative in which there
      is so much that tells against him, I cannot&mdash;since my story is in the
      nature of a brief for the defence&mdash;afford to slur a circumstance that
      is so strongly in his favour, a circumstance revealing that the cynicism
      attributed to him proceeded from his reason and from a brooding over
      wrongs rather than from any natural instincts. &ldquo;I care nothing for his
      threats.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You should,&rdquo; said Wolverstone. &ldquo;The wise thing&rsquo;d be to hang him, along o&rsquo; 
      all the rest.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is not human to be wise,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;It is much more human to err,
      though perhaps exceptional to err on the side of mercy. We&rsquo;ll be
      exceptional. Oh, faugh! I&rsquo;ve no stomach for cold-blooded killing. At
      daybreak pack the Spaniards into a boat with a keg of water and a sack of
      dumplings, and let them go to the devil.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      That was his last word on the subject, and it prevailed by virtue of the
      authority they had vested in him, and of which he had taken so firm a
      grip. At daybreak Don Esteban and his followers were put off in a boat.
    </p>
    <p>
      Two days later, the Cinco Llagas sailed into the rock-bound bay of Cayona,
      which Nature seemed to have designed for the stronghold of those who had
      appropriated it.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0013" id="link2HCH0013">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XIII. TORTUGA
    </h2>
    <p>
      It is time fully to disclose the fact that the survival of the story of
      Captain Blood&rsquo;s exploits is due entirely to the industry of Jeremy Pitt,
      the Somersetshire shipmaster. In addition to his ability as a navigator,
      this amiable young man appears to have wielded an indefatigable pen, and
      to have been inspired to indulge its fluency by the affection he very
      obviously bore to Peter Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      He kept the log of the forty-gun frigate Arabella, on which he served as
      master, or, as we should say to-day, navigating officer, as no log that I
      have seen was ever kept. It runs into some twenty-odd volumes of assorted
      sizes, some of which are missing altogether and others of which are so
      sadly depleted of leaves as to be of little use. But if at times in the
      laborious perusal of them&mdash;they are preserved in the library of Mr.
      James Speke of Comerton&mdash;I have inveighed against these lacunae, at
      others I have been equally troubled by the excessive prolixity of what
      remains and the difficulty of disintegrating from the confused whole the
      really essential parts.
    </p>
    <p>
      I have a suspicion that Esquemeling&mdash;though how or where I can make
      no surmise&mdash;must have obtained access to these records, and that he
      plucked from them the brilliant feathers of several exploits to stick them
      into the tail of his own hero, Captain Morgan. But that is by the way. I
      mention it chiefly as a warning, for when presently I come to relate the
      affair of Maracaybo, those of you who have read Esquemeling may be in
      danger of supposing that Henry Morgan really performed those things which
      here are veraciously attributed to Peter Blood. I think, however, that
      when you come to weigh the motives actuating both Blood and the Spanish
      Admiral, in that affair, and when you consider how integrally the event is
      a part of Blood&rsquo;s history&mdash;whilst merely a detached incident in
      Morgan&rsquo;s&mdash;you will reach my own conclusion as to which is the real
      plagiarist.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first of these logs of Pitt&rsquo;s is taken up almost entirely with a
      retrospective narrative of the events up to the time of Blood&rsquo;s first
      coming to Tortuga. This and the Tannatt Collection of State Trials are the
      chief&mdash;though not the only&mdash;sources of my history so far.
    </p>
    <p>
      Pitt lays great stress upon the fact that it was the circumstances upon
      which I have dwelt, and these alone, that drove Peter Blood to seek an
      anchorage at Tortuga. He insists at considerable length, and with a
      vehemence which in itself makes it plain that an opposite opinion was held
      in some quarters, that it was no part of the design of Blood or of any of
      his companions in misfortune to join hands with the buccaneers who, under
      a semi-official French protection, made of Tortuga a lair whence they
      could sally out to drive their merciless piratical trade chiefly at the
      expense of Spain.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was, Pitt tells us, Blood&rsquo;s original intention to make his way to
      France or Holland. But in the long weeks of waiting for a ship to convey
      him to one or the other of these countries, his resources dwindled and
      finally vanished. Also, his chronicler thinks that he detected signs of
      some secret trouble in his friend, and he attributes to this the abuses of
      the potent West Indian spirit of which Blood became guilty in those days
      of inaction, thereby sinking to the level of the wild adventurers with
      whom ashore he associated.
    </p>
    <p>
      I do not think that Pitt is guilty in this merely of special pleading,
      that he is putting forward excuses for his hero. I think that in those
      days there was a good deal to oppress Peter Blood. There was the thought
      of Arabella Bishop&mdash;and that this thought loomed large in his mind we
      are not permitted to doubt. He was maddened by the tormenting lure of the
      unattainable. He desired Arabella, yet knew her beyond his reach
      irrevocably and for all time. Also, whilst he may have desired to go to
      France or Holland, he had no clear purpose to accomplish when he reached
      one or the other of these countries. He was, when all is said, an escaped
      slave, an outlaw in his own land and a homeless outcast in any other.
      There remained the sea, which is free to all, and particularly alluring to
      those who feel themselves at war with humanity. And so, considering the
      adventurous spirit that once already had sent him a-roving for the sheer
      love of it, considering that this spirit was heightened now by a
      recklessness begotten of his outlawry, that his training and skill in
      militant seamanship clamorously supported the temptations that were put
      before him, can you wonder, or dare you blame him, that in the end he
      succumbed? And remember that these temptations proceeded not only from
      adventurous buccaneering acquaintances in the taverns of that evil haven
      of Tortuga, but even from M. d&rsquo;Ogeron, the governor of the island, who
      levied as his harbour dues a percentage of one tenth of all spoils brought
      into the bay, and who profited further by commissions upon money which he
      was desired to convert into bills of exchange upon France.
    </p>
    <p>
      A trade that might have worn a repellent aspect when urged by greasy,
      half-drunken adventurers, boucan-hunters, lumbermen, beach-combers,
      English, French, and Dutch, became a dignified, almost official form of
      privateering when advocated by the courtly, middle-aged gentleman who in
      representing the French West India Company seemed to represent France
      herself.
    </p>
    <p>
      Moreover, to a man&mdash;not excluding Jeremy Pitt himself, in whose blood
      the call of the sea was insistent and imperative&mdash;those who had
      escaped with Peter Blood from the Barbados plantations, and who,
      consequently, like himself, knew not whither to turn, were all resolved
      upon joining the great Brotherhood of the Coast, as those rovers called
      themselves. And they united theirs to the other voices that were
      persuading Blood, demanding that he should continue now in the leadership
      which he had enjoyed since they had left Barbados, and swearing to follow
      him loyally whithersoever he should lead them.
    </p>
    <p>
      And so, to condense all that Jeremy has recorded in the matter, Blood
      ended by yielding to external and internal pressure, abandoned himself to
      the stream of Destiny. &ldquo;Fata viam invenerunt,&rdquo; is his own expression of
      it.
    </p>
    <p>
      If he resisted so long, it was, I think, the thought of Arabella Bishop
      that restrained him. That they should be destined never to meet again did
      not weigh at first, or, indeed, ever. He conceived the scorn with which
      she would come to hear of his having turned pirate, and the scorn, though
      as yet no more than imagined, hurt him as if it were already a reality.
      And even when he conquered this, still the thought of her was ever
      present. He compromised with the conscience that her memory kept so
      disconcertingly active. He vowed that the thought of her should continue
      ever before him to help him keep his hands as clean as a man might in this
      desperate trade upon which he was embarking. And so, although he might
      entertain no delusive hope of ever winning her for his own, of ever even
      seeing her again, yet the memory of her was to abide in his soul as a
      bitter-sweet, purifying influence. The love that is never to be realized
      will often remain a man&rsquo;s guiding ideal. The resolve being taken, he went
      actively to work. Ogeron, most accommodating of governors, advanced him
      money for the proper equipment of his ship the Cinco Llagas, which he
      renamed the Arabella. This after some little hesitation, fearful of thus
      setting his heart upon his sleeve. But his Barbados friends accounted it
      merely an expression of the ever-ready irony in which their leader dealt.
    </p>
    <p>
      To the score of followers he already possessed, he added threescore more,
      picking his men with caution and discrimination&mdash;and he was an
      exceptional judge of men&mdash;from amongst the adventurers of Tortuga.
      With them all he entered into the articles usual among the Brethren of the
      Coast under which each man was to be paid by a share in the prizes
      captured. In other respects, however, the articles were different. Aboard
      the Arabella there was to be none of the ruffianly indiscipline that
      normally prevailed in buccaneering vessels. Those who shipped with him
      undertook obedience and submission in all things to himself and to the
      officers appointed by election. Any to whom this clause in the articles
      was distasteful might follow some other leader.
    </p>
    <p>
      Towards the end of December, when the hurricane season had blown itself
      out, he put to sea in his well-found, well-manned ship, and before he
      returned in the following May from a protracted and adventurous cruise,
      the fame of Captain Peter Blood had run like ripples before the breeze
      across the face of the Caribbean Sea. There was a fight in the Windward
      Passage at the outset with a Spanish galleon, which had resulted in the
      gutting and finally the sinking of the Spaniard. There was a daring raid
      effected by means of several appropriated piraguas upon a Spanish pearl
      fleet in the Rio de la Hacha, from which they had taken a particularly
      rich haul of pearls. There was an overland expedition to the goldfields of
      Santa Maria, on the Main, the full tale of which is hardly credible, and
      there were lesser adventures through all of which the crew of the Arabella
      came with credit and profit if not entirely unscathed.
    </p>
    <p>
      And so it happened that before the Arabella came homing to Tortuga in the
      following May to refit and repair&mdash;for she was not without scars, as
      you conceive&mdash;the fame of her and of Peter Blood her captain had
      swept from the Bahamas to the Windward Isles, from New Providence to
      Trinidad.
    </p>
    <p>
      An echo of it had reached Europe, and at the Court of St. James&rsquo;s angry
      representations were made by the Ambassador of Spain, to whom it was
      answered that it must not be supposed that this Captain Blood held any
      commission from the King of England; that he was, in fact, a proscribed
      rebel, an escaped slave, and that any measures against him by His Catholic
      Majesty would receive the cordial approbation of King James II.
    </p>
    <p>
      Don Miguel de Espinosa, the Admiral of Spain in the West Indies, and his
      nephew Don Esteban who sailed with him, did not lack the will to bring the
      adventurer to the yardarm. With them this business of capturing Blood,
      which was now an international affair, was also a family matter.
    </p>
    <p>
      Spain, through the mouth of Don Miguel, did not spare her threats. The
      report of them reached Tortuga, and with it the assurance that Don Miguel
      had behind him not only the authority of his own nation, but that of the
      English King as well.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was a brutum fulmen that inspired no terrors in Captain Blood. Nor was
      he likely, on account of it, to allow himself to run to rust in the
      security of Tortuga. For what he had suffered at the hands of Man he had
      chosen to make Spain the scapegoat. Thus he accounted that he served a
      twofold purpose: he took compensation and at the same time served, not
      indeed the Stuart King, whom he despised, but England and, for that
      matter, all the rest of civilized mankind which cruel, treacherous,
      greedy, bigoted Castile sought to exclude from intercourse with the New
      World.
    </p>
    <p>
      One day as he sat with Hagthorpe and Wolverstone over a pipe and a bottle
      of rum in the stifling reek of tar and stale tobacco of a waterside
      tavern, he was accosted by a splendid ruffian in a gold-laced coat of
      dark-blue satin with a crimson sash, a foot wide, about the waist.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;C&rsquo;est vous qu&rsquo;on appelle Le Sang?&rdquo; the fellow hailed him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood looked up to consider the questioner before replying. The
      man was tall and built on lines of agile strength, with a swarthy,
      aquiline face that was brutally handsome. A diamond of great price flamed
      on the indifferently clean hand resting on the pummel of his long rapier,
      and there were gold rings in his ears, half-concealed by long ringlets of
      oily chestnut hair.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood took the pipe-stem from between his lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My name,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;is Peter Blood. The Spaniards know me for Don Pedro
      Sangre and a Frenchman may call me Le Sang if he pleases.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good,&rdquo; said the gaudy adventurer in English, and without further
      invitation he drew up a stool and sat down at that greasy table. &ldquo;My
      name,&rdquo; he informed the three men, two of whom at least were eyeing him
      askance, &ldquo;it is Levasseur. You may have heard of me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They had, indeed. He commanded a privateer of twenty guns that had dropped
      anchor in the bay a week ago, manned by a crew mainly composed of French
      boucanhunters from Northern Hispaniola, men who had good cause to hate the
      Spaniard with an intensity exceeding that of the English. Levasseur had
      brought them back to Tortuga from an indifferently successful cruise. It
      would need more, however, than lack of success to abate the fellow&rsquo;s
      monstrous vanity. A roaring, quarrelsome, hard-drinking, hard-gaming
      scoundrel, his reputation as a buccaneer stood high among the wild
      Brethren of the Coast. He enjoyed also a reputation of another sort. There
      was about his gaudy, swaggering raffishness something that the women found
      singularly alluring. That he should boast openly of his bonnes fortunes
      did not seem strange to Captain Blood; what he might have found strange
      was that there appeared to be some measure of justification for these
      boasts.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was current gossip that even Mademoiselle d&rsquo;Ogeron, the Governor&rsquo;s
      daughter, had been caught in the snare of his wild attractiveness, and
      that Levasseur had gone the length of audacity of asking her hand in
      marriage of her father. M. d&rsquo;Ogeron had made him the only possible answer.
      He had shown him the door. Levasseur had departed in a rage, swearing that
      he would make mademoiselle his wife in the teeth of all the fathers in
      Christendom, and that M. d&rsquo;Ogeron should bitterly rue the affront he had
      put upon him.
    </p>
    <p>
      This was the man who now thrust himself upon Captain Blood with a proposal
      of association, offering him not only his sword, but his ship and the men
      who sailed in her.
    </p>
    <p>
      A dozen years ago, as a lad of barely twenty, Levasseur had sailed with
      that monster of cruelty L&rsquo;Ollonais, and his own subsequent exploits bore
      witness and did credit to the school in which he had been reared. I doubt
      if in his day there was a greater scoundrel among the Brethren of the
      Coast than this Levasseur. And yet, repulsive though he found him, Captain
      Blood could not deny that the fellow&rsquo;s proposals displayed boldness,
      imagination, and resource, and he was forced to admit that jointly they
      could undertake operations of a greater magnitude than was possible singly
      to either of them. The climax of Levasseur&rsquo;s project was to be a raid upon
      the wealthy mainland city of Maracaybo; but for this, he admitted, six
      hundred men at the very least would be required, and six hundred men were
      not to be conveyed in the two bottoms they now commanded. Preliminary
      cruises must take place, having for one of their objects the capture of
      further ships.
    </p>
    <p>
      Because he disliked the man, Captain Blood would not commit himself at
      once. But because he liked the proposal he consented to consider it. Being
      afterwards pressed by both Hagthorpe and Wolverstone, who did not share
      his own personal dislike of the Frenchman, the end of the matter was that
      within a week articles were drawn up between Levasseur and Blood, and
      signed by them and&mdash;as was usual&mdash;by the chosen representatives
      of their followers.
    </p>
    <p>
      These articles contained, inter alia, the common provisions that, should
      the two vessels separate, a strict account must afterwards be rendered of
      all prizes severally taken, whilst the vessel taking a prize should retain
      three fifths of its value, surrendering two fifths to its associate. These
      shares were subsequently to be subdivided among the crew of each vessel,
      in accordance with the articles already obtaining between each captain and
      his own men. For the rest, the articles contained all the clauses that
      were usual, among which was the clause that any man found guilty of
      abstracting or concealing any part of a prize, be it of the value of no
      more than a peso, should be summarily hanged from the yardarm.
    </p>
    <p>
      All being now settled they made ready for sea, and on the very eve of
      sailing, Levasseur narrowly escaped being shot in a romantic attempt to
      scale the wall of the Governor&rsquo;s garden, with the object of taking
      passionate leave of the infatuated Mademoiselle d&rsquo;Ogeron. He desisted
      after having been twice fired upon from a fragrant ambush of pimento trees
      where the Governor&rsquo;s guards were posted, and he departed vowing to take
      different and very definite measures on his return.
    </p>
    <p>
      That night he slept on board his ship, which with characteristic
      flamboyance he had named La Foudre, and there on the following day he
      received a visit from Captain Blood, whom he greeted half-mockingly as his
      admiral. The Irishman came to settle certain final details of which all
      that need concern us is an understanding that, in the event of the two
      vessels becoming separated by accident or design, they should rejoin each
      other as soon as might be at Tortuga.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thereafter Levasseur entertained his admiral to dinner, and jointly they
      drank success to the expedition, so copiously on the part of Levasseur
      that when the time came to separate he was as nearly drunk as it seemed
      possible for him to be and yet retain his understanding.
    </p>
    <p>
      Finally, towards evening, Captain Blood went over the side and was rowed
      back to his great ship with her red bulwarks and gilded ports, touched
      into a lovely thing of flame by the setting sun.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was a little heavy-hearted. I have said that he was a judge of men, and
      his judgment of Levasseur filled him with misgivings which were growing
      heavier in a measure as the hour of departure approached.
    </p>
    <p>
      He expressed it to Wolverstone, who met him as he stepped aboard the
      Arabella:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You over persuaded me into those articles, you blackguard; and it&rsquo;ll
      surprise me if any good comes of this association.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The giant rolled his single bloodthirsty eye, and sneered, thrusting out
      his heavy jaw. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll wring the dog&rsquo;s neck if there&rsquo;s any treachery.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So we will&mdash;if we are there to wring it by then.&rdquo; And on that,
      dismissing the matter: &ldquo;We sail in the morning, on the first of the ebb,&rdquo;
       he announced, and went off to his cabin.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0014" id="link2HCH0014">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XIV. LEVASSEUR&rsquo;S HEROICS
    </h2>
    <p>
      It would be somewhere about ten o&rsquo;clock on the following morning, a full
      hour before the time appointed for sailing, when a canoe brought up
      alongside La Foudre, and a half-caste Indian stepped out of her and went
      up the ladder. He was clad in drawers of hairy, untanned hide, and a red
      blanket served him for a cloak. He was the bearer of a folded scrap of
      paper for Captain Levasseur.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Captain unfolded the letter, sadly soiled and crumpled by contact with
      the half-caste&rsquo;s person. Its contents may be roughly translated thus:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My well-beloved&mdash;I am in the Dutch brig Jongvrow, which is about to
      sail. Resolved to separate us for ever, my cruel father is sending me to
      Europe in my brother&rsquo;s charge. I implore you, come to my rescue. Deliver
      me, my well-beloved hero!&mdash;Your desolated Madeleine, who loves you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The well-beloved hero was moved to the soul of him by that passionate
      appeal. His scowling glance swept the bay for the Dutch brig, which he
      knew had been due to sail for Amsterdam with a cargo of hides and tobacco.
    </p>
    <p>
      She was nowhere to be seen among the shipping in that narrow, rock-bound
      harbour. He roared out the question in his mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      In answer the half-caste pointed out beyond the frothing surf that marked
      the position of the reef constituting one of the stronghold&rsquo;s main
      defences. Away beyond it, a mile or so distant, a sail was standing out to
      sea. &ldquo;There she go,&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There!&rdquo; The Frenchman gazed and stared, his face growing white. The man&rsquo;s
      wicked temper awoke, and turned to vent itself upon the messenger. &ldquo;And
      where have you been that you come here only now with this? Answer me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The half-caste shrank terrified before his fury. His explanation, if he
      had one, was paralyzed by fear. Levasseur took him by the throat, shook
      him twice, snarling the while, then hurled him into the scuppers. The
      man&rsquo;s head struck the gunwale as he fell, and he lay there, quite still, a
      trickle of blood issuing from his mouth.
    </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur dashed one hand against the other, as if dusting them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Heave that muck overboard,&rdquo; he ordered some of those who stood idling in
      the waist. &ldquo;Then up anchor, and let us after the Dutchman.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Steady, Captain. What&rsquo;s that?&rdquo; There was a restraining hand upon his
      shoulder, and the broad face of his lieutenant Cahusac, a burly, callous
      Breton scoundrel, was stolidly confronting him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur made clear his purpose with a deal of unnecessary obscenity.
    </p>
    <p>
      Cahusac shook his head. &ldquo;A Dutch brig!&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;Impossible! We should
      never be allowed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And who the devil will deny us?&rdquo; Levasseur was between amazement and
      fury.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For one thing, there&rsquo;s your own crew will be none too willing. For
      another there&rsquo;s Captain Blood.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I care nothing for Captain Blood....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But it is necessary that you should. He has the power, the weight of
      metal and of men, and if I know him at all he&rsquo;ll sink us before he&rsquo;ll
      suffer interference with the Dutch. He has his own views of privateering,
      this Captain Blood, as I warned you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah!&rdquo; said Levasseur, showing his teeth. But his eyes, riveted upon that
      distant sail, were gloomily thoughtful. Not for long. The imagination and
      resource which Captain Blood had detected in the fellow soon suggested a
      course.
    </p>
    <p>
      Cursing in his soul, and even before the anchor was weighed, the
      association into which he had entered, he was already studying ways of
      evasion. What Cahusac implied was true: Blood would never suffer violence
      to be done in his presence to a Dutchman; but it might be done in his
      absence; and, being done, Blood must perforce condone it, since it would
      then be too late to protest.
    </p>
    <p>
      Within the hour the Arabella and La Foudre were beating out to sea
      together. Without understanding the change of plan involved, Captain
      Blood, nevertheless, accepted it, and weighed anchor before the appointed
      time upon perceiving his associate to do so.
    </p>
    <p>
      All day the Dutch brig was in sight, though by evening she had dwindled to
      the merest speck on the northern horizon. The course prescribed for Blood
      and Levasseur lay eastward along the northern shores of Hispaniola. To
      that course the Arabella continued to hold steadily throughout the night.
      When day broke again, she was alone. La Foudre under cover of the darkness
      had struck away to The northeast with every rag of canvas on her yards.
    </p>
    <p>
      Cahusac had attempted yet again to protest against this.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The devil take you!&rdquo; Levasseur had answered him. &ldquo;A ship&rsquo;s a ship, be she
      Dutch or Spanish, and ships are our present need. That will suffice for
      the men.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lieutenant said no more. But from his glimpse of the letter, knowing
      that a girl and not a ship was his captain&rsquo;s real objective, he gloomily
      shook his head as he rolled away on his bowed legs to give the necessary
      orders.
    </p>
    <p>
      Dawn found La Foudre close on the Dutchman&rsquo;s heels, not a mile astern, and
      the sight of her very evidently flustered the Jongvrow. No doubt
      mademoiselle&rsquo;s brother recognizing Levasseur&rsquo;s ship would be responsible
      for the Dutch uneasiness. They saw the Jongvrow crowding canvas in a
      futile endeavour to outsail them, whereupon they stood off to starboard
      and raced on until they were in a position whence they could send a
      warning shot across her bow. The Jongvrow veered, showed them her rudder,
      and opened fire with her stern chasers. The small shot went whistling
      through La Foudre&rsquo;s shrouds with some slight damage to her canvas.
      Followed a brief running fight in the course of which the Dutchman let fly
      a broadside.
    </p>
    <p>
      Five minutes after that they were board and board, the Jongvrow held tight
      in the clutches of La Foudre&rsquo;s grapnels, and the buccaneers pouring
      noisily into her waist.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Dutchman&rsquo;s master, purple in the face, stood forward to beard the
      pirate, followed closely by an elegant, pale-faced young gentleman in whom
      Levasseur recognized his brother-in-law elect.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Captain Levasseur, this is an outrage for which you shall be made to
      answer. What do you seek aboard my ship?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;At first I sought only that which belongs to me, something of which I am
      being robbed. But since you chose war and opened fire on me with some
      damage to my ship and loss of life to five of my men, why, war it is, and
      your ship a prize of war.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      From the quarter rail Mademoiselle d&rsquo;Ogeron looked down with glowing eyes
      in breathless wonder upon her well-beloved hero. Gloriously heroic he
      seemed as he stood towering there, masterful, audacious, beautiful. He saw
      her, and with a glad shout sprang towards her. The Dutch master got in his
      way with hands upheld to arrest his progress. Levasseur did not stay to
      argue with him: he was too impatient to reach his mistress. He swung the
      poleaxe that he carried, and the Dutchman went down in blood with a cloven
      skull. The eager lover stepped across the body and came on, his
      countenance joyously alight.
    </p>
    <p>
      But mademoiselle was shrinking now, in horror. She was a girl upon the
      threshold of glorious womanhood, of a fine height and nobly moulded, with
      heavy coils of glossy black hair above and about a face that was of the
      colour of old ivory. Her countenance was cast in lines of arrogance,
      stressed by the low lids of her full dark eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      In a bound her well-beloved was beside her, flinging away his bloody
      poleaxe, he opened wide his arms to enfold her. But she still shrank even
      within his embrace, which would not be denied; a look of dread had come to
      temper the normal arrogance of her almost perfect face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mine, mine at last, and in spite of all!&rdquo; he cried exultantly,
      theatrically, truly heroic.
    </p>
    <p>
      But she, endeavouring to thrust him back, her hands against his breast,
      could only falter: &ldquo;Why, why did you kill him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He laughed, as a hero should; and answered her heroically, with the
      tolerance of a god for the mortal to whom he condescends: &ldquo;He stood
      between us. Let his death be a symbol, a warning. Let all who would stand
      between us mark it and beware.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was so splendidly terrific, the gesture of it was so broad and fine and
      his magnetism so compelling, that she cast her silly tremors and yielded
      herself freely, intoxicated, to his fond embrace. Thereafter he swung her
      to his shoulder, and stepping with ease beneath that burden, bore her in a
      sort of triumph, lustily cheered by his men, to the deck of his own ship.
      Her inconsiderate brother might have ruined that romantic scene but for
      the watchful Cahusac, who quietly tripped him up, and then trussed him
      like a fowl.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thereafter, what time the Captain languished in his lady&rsquo;s smile within
      the cabin, Cahusac was dealing with the spoils of war. The Dutch crew was
      ordered into the longboat, and bidden go to the devil. Fortunately, as
      they numbered fewer than thirty, the longboat, though perilously
      overcrowded, could yet contain them. Next, Cahusac having inspected the
      cargo, put a quartermaster and a score of men aboard the Jongvrow, and
      left her to follow La Foudre, which he now headed south for the Leeward
      Islands.
    </p>
    <p>
      Cahusac was disposed to be ill-humoured. The risk they had run in taking
      the Dutch brig and doing violence to members of the family of the Governor
      of Tortuga, was out of all proportion to the value of their prize. He said
      so, sullenly, to Levasseur.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll keep that opinion to yourself,&rdquo; the Captain answered him. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t
      think I am the man to thrust my neck into a noose, without knowing how I
      am going to take it out again. I shall send an offer of terms to the
      Governor of Tortuga that he will be forced to accept. Set a course for the
      Virgen Magra. We&rsquo;ll go ashore, and settle things from there. And tell them
      to fetch that milksop Ogeron to the cabin.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur went back to the adoring lady.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thither, too, the lady&rsquo;s brother was presently conducted. The Captain rose
      to receive him, bending his stalwart height to avoid striking the cabin
      roof with his head. Mademoiselle rose too.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why this?&rdquo; she asked Levasseur, pointing to her brother&rsquo;s pinioned wrists&mdash;the
      remains of Cahusac&rsquo;s precautions.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I deplore it,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;I desire it to end. Let M. d&rsquo;Ogeron give me his
      parole....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I give you nothing,&rdquo; flashed the white-faced youth, who did not lack for
      spirit.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You see.&rdquo; Levasseur shrugged his deep regret, and mademoiselle turned
      protesting to her brother.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Henri, this is foolish! You are not behaving as my friend. You....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Little fool,&rdquo; her brother answered her&mdash;and the &ldquo;little&rdquo; was out of
      place; she was the taller of the twain. &ldquo;Little fool, do you think I
      should be acting as your friend to make terms with this blackguard
      pirate?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Steady, my young cockerel!&rdquo; Levasseur laughed. But his laugh was not
      nice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you perceive your wicked folly in the harm it has brought already?
      Lives have been lost&mdash;men have died&mdash;that this monster might
      overtake you. And don&rsquo;t you yet realize where you stand&mdash;in the power
      of this beast, of this cur born in a kennel and bred in thieving and
      murder?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He might have said more but that Levasseur struck him across the mouth.
      Levasseur, you see, cared as little as another to hear the truth about
      himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mademoiselle suppressed a scream, as the youth staggered back under the
      blow. He came to rest against a bulkhead, and leaned there with bleeding
      lips. But his spirit was unquenched, and there was a ghastly smile on his
      white face as his eyes sought his sister&rsquo;s.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You see,&rdquo; he said simply. &ldquo;He strikes a man whose hands are bound.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The simple words, and, more than the words, their tone of ineffable
      disdain, aroused the passion that never slumbered deeply in Levasseur.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And what should you do, puppy, if your hands were unbound?&rdquo; He took his
      prisoner by the breast of his doublet and shook him. &ldquo;Answer me! What
      should you do? Tchah! You empty windbag! You....&rdquo; And then came a torrent
      of words unknown to mademoiselle, yet of whose foulness her intuitions
      made her conscious.
    </p>
    <p>
      With blanched cheeks she stood by the cabin table, and cried out to
      Levasseur to stop. To obey her, he opened the door, and flung her brother
      through it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Put that rubbish under hatches until I call for it again,&rdquo; he roared, and
      shut the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      Composing himself, he turned to the girl again with a deprecatory smile.
      But no smile answered him from her set face. She had seen her beloved
      hero&rsquo;s nature in curl-papers, as it were, and she found the spectacle
      disgusting and terrifying. It recalled the brutal slaughter of the Dutch
      captain, and suddenly she realized that what her brother had just said of
      this man was no more than true. Fear growing to panic was written on her
      face, as she stood there leaning for support against the table.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why, sweetheart, what is this?&rdquo; Levasseur moved towards her. She recoiled
      before him. There was a smile on his face, a glitter in his eyes that
      fetched her heart into her throat.
    </p>
    <p>
      He caught her, as she reached the uttermost limits of the cabin, seized
      her in his long arms and pulled her to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, no!&rdquo; she panted.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, yes,&rdquo; he mocked her, and his mockery was the most terrible thing of
      all. He crushed her to him brutally, deliberately hurtful because she
      resisted, and kissed her whilst she writhed in his embrace. Then, his
      passion mounting, he grew angry and stripped off the last rag of hero&rsquo;s
      mask that still may have hung upon his face. &ldquo;Little fool, did you not
      hear your brother say that you are in my power? Remember it, and remember
      that of your own free will you came. I am not the man with whom a woman
      can play fast and loose. So get sense, my girl, and accept what you have
      invited.&rdquo; He kissed her again, almost contemptuously, and flung her off.
      &ldquo;No more scowls,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll be sorry else.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Some one knocked. Cursing the interruption, Levasseur strode off to open.
      Cahusac stood before him. The Breton&rsquo;s face was grave. He came to report
      that they had sprung a leak between wind and water, the consequence of
      damage sustained from one of the Dutchman&rsquo;s shots. In alarm Levasseur went
      off with him. The leakage was not serious so long as the weather kept
      fine; but should a storm overtake them it might speedily become so. A man
      was slung overboard to make a partial stoppage with a sail-cloth, and the
      pumps were got to work.
    </p>
    <p>
      Ahead of them a low cloud showed on the horizon, which Cahusac pronounced
      one of the northernmost of the Virgin Islands.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We must run for shelter there, and careen her,&rdquo; said Levasseur. &ldquo;I do not
      trust this oppressive heat. A storm may catch us before we make land.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A storm or something else,&rdquo; said Cahusac grimly. &ldquo;Have you noticed that?&rdquo;
       He pointed away to starboard.
    </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur looked, and caught his breath. Two ships that at the distance
      seemed of considerable burden were heading towards them some five miles
      away.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If they follow us what is to happen?&rdquo; demanded Cahusac.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll fight whether we&rsquo;re in case to do so or not,&rdquo; swore Levasseur.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Counsels of despair.&rdquo; Cahusac was contemptuous. To mark it he spat upon
      the deck. &ldquo;This comes of going to sea with a lovesick madman. Now, keep
      your temper, Captain, for the hands will be at the end of theirs if we
      have trouble as a result of this Dutchman business.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For the remainder of that day Levasseur&rsquo;s thoughts were of anything but
      love. He remained on deck, his eyes now upon the land, now upon those two
      slowly gaining ships. To run for the open could avail him nothing, and in
      his leaky condition would provide an additional danger. He must stand at
      bay and fight. And then, towards evening, when within three miles of shore
      and when he was about to give the order to strip for battle, he almost
      fainted from relief to hear a voice from the crow&rsquo;s-nest above announce
      that the larger of the two ships was the Arabella. Her companion was
      presumably a prize.
    </p>
    <p>
      But the pessimism of Cahusac abated nothing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is but the lesser evil,&rdquo; he growled. &ldquo;What will Blood say about this
      Dutchman?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let him say what he pleases.&rdquo; Levasseur laughed in the immensity of his
      relief.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And what about the children of the Governor of Tortuga?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He must not know.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He&rsquo;ll come to know in the end.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye, but by then, morbleu, the matter will be settled. I shall have made
      my peace with the Governor. I tell you I know the way to compel Ogeron to
      come to terms.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Presently the four vessels lay to off the northern coast of La Virgen
      Magra, a narrow little island arid and treeless, some twelve miles by
      three, uninhabited save by birds and turtles and unproductive of anything
      but salt, of which there were considerable ponds to the south.
    </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur put off in a boat accompanied by Cahusac and two other officers,
      and went to visit Captain Blood aboard the Arabella.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Our brief separation has been mighty profitable,&rdquo; was Captain Blood&rsquo;s
      greeting. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a busy morning we&rsquo;ve both had.&rdquo; He was in high good-humour
      as he led the way to the great cabin for a rendering of accounts.
    </p>
    <p>
      The tall ship that accompanied the Arabella was a Spanish vessel of
      twenty-six guns, the Santiago from Puerto Rico with a hundred and twenty
      thousand weight of cacao, forty thousand pieces of eight, and the value of
      ten thousand more in jewels. A rich capture of which two fifths under the
      articles went to Levasseur and his crew. Of the money and jewels a
      division was made on the spot. The cacao it was agreed should be taken to
      Tortuga to be sold.
    </p>
    <p>
      Then it was the turn of Levasseur, and black grew the brow of Captain
      Blood as the Frenchman&rsquo;s tale was unfolded. At the end he roundly
      expressed his disapproval. The Dutch were a friendly people whom it was a
      folly to alienate, particularly for so paltry a matter as these hides and
      tobacco, which at most would fetch a bare twenty thousand pieces.
    </p>
    <p>
      But Levasseur answered him, as he had answered Cahusac, that a ship was a
      ship, and it was ships they needed against their projected enterprise.
      Perhaps because things had gone well with him that day, Blood ended by
      shrugging the matter aside. Thereupon Levasseur proposed that the Arabella
      and her prize should return to Tortuga there to unload the cacao and
      enlist the further adventurers that could now be shipped. Levasseur
      meanwhile would effect certain necessary repairs, and then proceeding
      south, await his admiral at Saltatudos, an island conveniently situated&mdash;in
      the latitude of 11 deg. 11&rsquo; N.&mdash;for their enterprise against
      Maracaybo.
    </p>
    <p>
      To Levasseur&rsquo;s relief, Captain Blood not only agreed, but pronounced
      himself ready to set sail at once.
    </p>
    <p>
      No sooner had the Arabella departed than Levasseur brought his ships into
      the lagoon, and set his crew to work upon the erection of temporary
      quarters ashore for himself, his men, and his enforced guests during the
      careening and repairing of La Foudre.
    </p>
    <p>
      At sunset that evening the wind freshened; it grew to a gale, and from
      that to such a hurricane that Levasseur was thankful to find himself
      ashore and his ships in safe shelter. He wondered a little how it might be
      faring with Captain Blood out there at the mercy of that terrific storm;
      but he did not permit concern to trouble him unduly.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0015" id="link2HCH0015">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XV. THE RANSOM
    </h2>
    <p>
      In the glory of the following morning, sparkling and clear after the
      storm, with an invigorating, briny tang in the air from the salt-ponds on
      the south of the island, a curious scene was played on the beach of the
      Virgen Magra, at the foot of a ridge of bleached dunes, beside the spread
      of sail from which Levasseur had improvised a tent.
    </p>
    <p>
      Enthroned upon an empty cask sat the French filibuster to transact
      important business: the business of making himself safe with the Governor
      of Tortuga.
    </p>
    <p>
      A guard of honour of a half-dozen officers hung about him; five of them
      were rude boucan-hunters, in stained jerkins and leather breeches; the
      sixth was Cahusac. Before him, guarded by two half-naked negroes, stood
      young d&rsquo;Ogeron, in frilled shirt and satin small-clothes and fine shoes of
      Cordovan leather. He was stripped of doublet, and his hands were tied
      behind him. The young gentleman&rsquo;s comely face was haggard. Near at hand,
      and also under guard, but unpinioned, mademoiselle his sister sat hunched
      upon a hillock of sand. She was very pale, and it was in vain that she
      sought to veil in a mask of arrogance the fears by which she was assailed.
    </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur addressed himself to M. d&rsquo;Ogeron. He spoke at long length. In
      the end&mdash;
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I trust, monsieur,&rdquo; said he, with mock suavity, &ldquo;that I have made myself
      quite clear. So that there may be no misunderstandings, I will
      recapitulate. Your ransom is fixed at twenty thousand pieces of eight, and
      you shall have liberty on parole to go to Tortuga to collect it. In fact,
      I shall provide the means to convey you thither, and you shall have a
      month in which to come and go. Meanwhile, your sister remains with me as a
      hostage. Your father should not consider such a sum excessive as the price
      of his son&rsquo;s liberty and to provide a dowry for his daughter. Indeed, if
      anything, I am too modest, pardi! M. d&rsquo;Ogeron is reputed a wealthy man.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      M. d&rsquo;Ogeron the younger raised his head and looked the Captain boldly in
      the face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I refuse&mdash;utterly and absolutely, do you understand? So do your
      worst, and be damned for a filthy pirate without decency and without
      honour.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But what words!&rdquo; laughed Levasseur. &ldquo;What heat and what foolishness! You
      have not considered the alternative. When you do, you will not persist in
      your refusal. You will not do that in any case. We have spurs for the
      reluctant. And I warn you against giving me your parole under stress, and
      afterwards playing me false. I shall know how to find and punish you.
      Meanwhile, remember your sister&rsquo;s honour is in pawn to me. Should you
      forget to return with the dowry, you will not consider it unreasonable
      that I forget to marry her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur&rsquo;s smiling eyes, intent upon the young man&rsquo;s face, saw the horror
      that crept into his glance. M. d&rsquo;Ogeron cast a wild glance at
      mademoiselle, and observed the grey despair that had almost stamped the
      beauty from her face. Disgust and fury swept across his countenance.
    </p>
    <p>
      Then he braced himself and answered resolutely:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, you dog! A thousand times, no!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are foolish to persist.&rdquo; Levasseur spoke without anger, with a coldly
      mocking regret. His fingers had been busy tying knots in a length of
      whipcord. He held it up. &ldquo;You know this? It is a rosary of pain that has
      wrought the conversion of many a stubborn heretic. It is capable of
      screwing the eyes out of a man&rsquo;s head by way of helping him to see reason.
      As you please.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He flung the length of knotted cord to one of the negroes, who in an
      instant made it fast about the prisoner&rsquo;s brows. Then between cord and
      cranium the black inserted a short length of metal, round and slender as a
      pipe-stem. That done he rolled his eyes towards Levasseur, awaiting the
      Captain&rsquo;s signal.
    </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur considered his victim, and beheld him tense and braced, his
      haggard face of a leaden hue, beads of perspiration glinting on his pallid
      brow just beneath the whipcord.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mademoiselle cried out, and would have risen: but her guards restrained
      her, and she sank down again, moaning.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg that you will spare yourself and your sister,&rdquo; said the Captain,
      &ldquo;by being reasonable. What, after all, is the sum I have named? To your
      wealthy father a bagatelle. I repeat, I have been too modest. But since I
      have said twenty thousand pieces of eight, twenty thousand pieces it shall
      be.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And for what, if you please, have you said twenty thousand pieces of
      eight?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In execrable French, but in a voice that was crisp and pleasant, seeming
      to echo some of the mockery that had invested Levasseur&rsquo;s, that question
      floated over their heads.
    </p>
    <p>
      Startled, Levasseur and his officers looked up and round. On the crest of
      the dunes behind them, in sharp silhouette against the deep cobalt of the
      sky, they beheld a tall, lean figure scrupulously dressed in black with
      silver lace, a crimson ostrich plume curled about the broad brim of his
      hat affording the only touch of colour. Under that hat was the tawny face
      of Captain Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur gathered himself up with an oath of amazement. He had conceived
      Captain Blood by now well below the horizon, on his way to Tortuga,
      assuming him to have been so fortunate as to have weathered last night&rsquo;s
      storm.
    </p>
    <p>
      Launching himself upon the yielding sand, into which he sank to the level
      of the calves of his fine boots of Spanish leather, Captain Blood came
      sliding erect to the beach. He was followed by Wolverstone, and a dozen
      others. As he came to a standstill, he doffed his hat, with a flourish, to
      the lady. Then he turned to Levasseur.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-morning, my Captain,&rdquo; said he, and proceeded to explain his
      presence. &ldquo;It was last night&rsquo;s hurricane compelled our return. We had no
      choice but to ride before it with stripped poles, and it drove us back the
      way we had gone. Moreover&mdash;as the devil would have it!&mdash;the
      Santiago sprang her mainmast; and so I was glad to put into a cove on the
      west of the island a couple of miles away, and we&rsquo;ve walked across to
      stretch our legs, and to give you good-day. But who are these?&rdquo; And he
      designated the man and the woman.
    </p>
    <p>
      Cahusac shrugged his shoulders, and tossed his long arms to heaven.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Voila!&rdquo; said he, pregnantly, to the firmament.
    </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur gnawed his lip, and changed colour. But he controlled himself to
      answer civilly:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As you see, two prisoners.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah! Washed ashore in last night&rsquo;s gale, eh?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not so.&rdquo; Levasseur contained himself with difficulty before that irony.
      &ldquo;They were in the Dutch brig.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t remember that you mentioned them before.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I did not. They are prisoners of my own&mdash;a personal matter. They are
      French.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;French!&rdquo; Captain Blood&rsquo;s light eyes stabbed at Levasseur, then at the
      prisoners.
    </p>
    <p>
      M. d&rsquo;Ogeron stood tense and braced as before, but the grey horror had left
      his face. Hope had leapt within him at this interruption, obviously as
      little expected by his tormentor as by himself. His sister, moved by a
      similar intuition, was leaning forward with parted lips and gaping eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood fingered his lip, and frowned thoughtfully upon Levasseur.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yesterday you surprised me by making war upon the friendly Dutch. But now
      it seems that not even your own countrymen are safe from you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have I not said that these... that this is a matter personal to me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah! And their names?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood&rsquo;s crisp, authoritative, faintly disdainful manner stirred
      Levasseur&rsquo;s quick anger. The blood crept slowly back into his blenched
      face, and his glance grew in insolence, almost in menace. Meanwhile the
      prisoner answered for him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am Henri d&rsquo;Ogeron, and this is my sister.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;D&rsquo;Ogeron?&rdquo; Captain Blood stared. &ldquo;Are you related by chance to my good
      friend the Governor of Tortuga?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He is my father.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur swung aside with an imprecation. In Captain Blood, amazement for
      the moment quenched every other emotion.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The saints preserve us now! Are you quite mad, Levasseur? First you
      molest the Dutch, who are our friends; next you take prisoners two persons
      that are French, your own countrymen; and now, faith, they&rsquo;re no less than
      the children of the Governor of Tortuga, which is the one safe place of
      shelter that we enjoy in these islands....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur broke in angrily:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Must I tell you again that it is a matter personal to me? I make myself
      alone responsible to the Governor of Tortuga.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And the twenty thousand pieces of eight? Is that also a matter personal
      to you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now I don&rsquo;t agree with you at all.&rdquo; Captain Blood sat down on the cask
      that Levasseur had lately occupied, and looked up blandly. &ldquo;I may inform
      you, to save time, that I heard the entire proposal that you made to this
      lady and this gentleman, and I&rsquo;ll also remind you that we sail under
      articles that admit no ambiguities. You have fixed their ransom at twenty
      thousand pieces of eight. That sum then belongs to your crews and mine in
      the proportions by the articles established. You&rsquo;ll hardly wish to dispute
      it. But what is far more grave is that you have concealed from me this
      part of the prizes taken on your last cruise, and for such an offence as
      that the articles provide certain penalties that are something severe in
      character.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ho, ho!&rdquo; laughed Levasseur unpleasantly. Then added: &ldquo;If you dislike my
      conduct we can dissolve the association.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is my intention. But we&rsquo;ll dissolve it when and in the manner that I
      choose, and that will be as soon as you have satisfied the articles under
      which we sailed upon this cruise.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you mean?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll be as short as I can,&rdquo; said Captain Blood. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll waive for the
      moment the unseemliness of making war upon the Dutch, of taking French
      prisoners, and of provoking the anger of the Governor of Tortuga. I&rsquo;ll
      accept the situation as I find it. Yourself you&rsquo;ve fixed the ransom of
      this couple at twenty thousand pieces, and, as I gather, the lady is to be
      your perquisite. But why should she be your perquisite more than
      another&rsquo;s, seeing that she belongs by the articles to all of us, as a
      prize of war?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Black as thunder grew the brow of Levasseur.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;However,&rdquo; added Captain Blood, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll not dispute her to you if you are
      prepared to buy her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Buy her?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;At the price you have set upon her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur contained his rage, that he might reason with the Irishman.
      &ldquo;That is the ransom of the man. It is to be paid for him by the Governor
      of Tortuga.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, no. Ye&rsquo;ve parcelled the twain together&mdash;very oddly, I confess.
      Ye&rsquo;ve set their value at twenty thousand pieces, and for that sum you may
      have them, since you desire it; but you&rsquo;ll pay for them the twenty
      thousand pieces that are ultimately to come to you as the ransom of one
      and the dowry of the other; and that sum shall be divided among our crews.
      So that you do that, it is conceivable that our followers may take a
      lenient view of your breach of the articles we jointly signed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur laughed savagely. &ldquo;Ah ca! Credieu! The good jest!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I quite agree with you,&rdquo; said Captain Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      To Levasseur the jest lay in that Captain Blood, with no more than a dozen
      followers, should come there attempting to hector him who had a hundred
      men within easy call. But it seemed that he had left out of his reckoning
      something which his opponent had counted in. For as, laughing still,
      Levasseur swung to his officers, he saw that which choked the laughter in
      his throat. Captain Blood had shrewdly played upon the cupidity that was
      the paramount inspiration of those adventurers. And Levasseur now read
      clearly on their faces how completely they adopted Captain Blood&rsquo;s
      suggestion that all must participate in the ransom which their leader had
      thought to appropriate to himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      It gave the gaudy ruffian pause, and whilst in his heart he cursed those
      followers of his, who could be faithful only to their greed, he perceived&mdash;and
      only just in time&mdash;that he had best tread warily.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You misunderstand,&rdquo; he said, swallowing his rage. &ldquo;The ransom is for
      division, when it comes. The girl, meanwhile, is mine on that
      understanding.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good!&rdquo; grunted Cahusac. &ldquo;On that understanding all arranges itself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You think so?&rdquo; said Captain Blood. &ldquo;But if M. d&rsquo;Ogeron should refuse to
      pay the ransom? What then?&rdquo; He laughed, and got lazily to his feet. &ldquo;No,
      no. If Captain Levasseur is meanwhile to keep the girl, as he proposes,
      then let him pay this ransom, and be his the risk if it should afterwards
      not be forthcoming.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s it!&rdquo; cried one of Levasseur&rsquo;s officers. And Cahusac added: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s
      reasonable, that! Captain Blood is right. It is in the articles.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is in the articles, you fools?&rdquo; Levasseur was in danger of losing
      his head. &ldquo;Sacre Dieu! Where do you suppose that I have twenty thousand
      pieces? My whole share of the prizes of this cruise does not come to half
      that sum. I&rsquo;ll be your debtor until I&rsquo;ve earned it. Will that content
      you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      All things considered, there is not a doubt that it would have done so had
      not Captain Blood intended otherwise.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And if you should die before you have earned it? Ours is a calling
      fraught with risks, my Captain.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Damn you!&rdquo; Levasseur flung upon him livid with fury. &ldquo;Will nothing
      satisfy you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, but yes. Twenty thousand pieces of eight for immediate division.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I haven&rsquo;t got it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then let some one buy the prisoners who has.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And who do you suppose has it if I have not?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have,&rdquo; said Captain Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have!&rdquo; Levasseur&rsquo;s mouth fell open. &ldquo;You... you want the girl?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why not? And I exceed you in gallantry in that I will make sacrifices to
      obtain her, and in honesty in that I am ready to pay for what I want.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur stared at him foolishly agape. Behind him pressed his officers,
      gaping also.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood sat down again on the cask, and drew from an inner pocket of
      his doublet a little leather bag. &ldquo;I am glad to be able to resolve a
      difficulty that at one moment seemed insoluble.&rdquo; And under the bulging
      eyes of Levasseur and his officers, he untied the mouth of the bag and
      rolled into his left palm four or five pearls each of the size of a
      sparrow&rsquo;s egg. There were twenty such in the bag, the very pick of those
      taken in that raid upon the pearl fleet. &ldquo;You boast a knowledge of pearls,
      Cahusac. At what do you value this?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Breton took between coarse finger and thumb the proffered lustrous,
      delicately iridescent sphere, his shrewd eyes appraising it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A thousand pieces,&rdquo; he answered shortly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It will fetch rather more in Tortuga or Jamaica,&rdquo; said Captain Blood,
      &ldquo;and twice as much in Europe. But I&rsquo;ll accept your valuation. They are
      almost of a size, as you can see. Here are twelve, representing twelve
      thousand pieces of eight, which is La Foudre&rsquo;s share of three fifths of
      the prize, as provided by the articles. For the eight thousand pieces that
      go to the Arabella, I make myself responsible to my own men. And now,
      Wolverstone, if you please, will you take my property aboard the
      Arabella?&rdquo; He stood up again, indicating the prisoners.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah, no!&rdquo; Levasseur threw wide the floodgates of his fury. &ldquo;Ah, that, no,
      by example! You shall not take her....&rdquo; He would have sprung upon Captain
      Blood, who stood aloof, alert, tight-lipped, and watchful.
    </p>
    <p>
      But it was one of Levasseur&rsquo;s own officers who hindered him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nom de Dieu, my Captain! What will you do? It is settled; honourably
      settled with satisfaction to all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To all?&rdquo; blazed Levasseur. &ldquo;Ah ca! To all of you, you animals! But what
      of me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Cahusac, with the pearls clutched in his capacious hand, stepped up to him
      on the other side. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be a fool, Captain. Do you want to provoke
      trouble between the crews? His men outnumber us by nearly two to one.
      What&rsquo;s a girl more or less? In Heaven&rsquo;s name, let her go. He&rsquo;s paid
      handsomely for her, and dealt fairly with us.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Dealt fairly?&rdquo; roared the infuriated Captain. &ldquo;You....&rdquo; In all his foul
      vocabulary he could find no epithet to describe his lieutenant. He caught
      him a blow that almost sent him sprawling. The pearls were scattered in
      the sand.
    </p>
    <p>
      Cahusac dived after them, his fellows with him. Vengeance must wait. For
      some moments they groped there on hands and knees, oblivious of all else.
      And yet in those moments vital things were happening.
    </p>
    <p>
      Levasseur, his hand on his sword, his face a white mask of rage, was
      confronting Captain Blood to hinder his departure.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You do not take her while I live!&rdquo; he cried.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then I&rsquo;ll take her when you&rsquo;re dead,&rdquo; said Captain Blood, and his own
      blade flashed in the sunlight. &ldquo;The articles provide that any man of
      whatever rank concealing any part of a prize, be it of the value of no
      more than a peso, shall be hanged at the yardarm. It&rsquo;s what I intended for
      you in the end. But since ye prefer it this way, ye muckrake, faith, I&rsquo;ll
      be humouring you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He waved away the men who would have interfered, and the blades rang
      together.
    </p>
    <p>
      M. d&rsquo;Ogeron looked on, a man bemused, unable to surmise what the issue
      either way could mean for him. Meanwhile, two of Blood&rsquo;s men who had taken
      the place of the Frenchman&rsquo;s negro guards, had removed the crown of
      whipcord from his brow. As for mademoiselle, she had risen, and was
      leaning forward, a hand pressed tightly to her heaving breast, her face
      deathly pale, a wild terror in her eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was soon over. The brute strength, upon which Levasseur so confidently
      counted, could avail nothing against the Irishman&rsquo;s practised skill. When,
      with both lungs transfixed, he lay prone on the white sand, coughing out
      his rascally life, Captain Blood looked calmly at Cahusac across the body.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think that cancels the articles between us,&rdquo; he said. With soulless,
      cynical eyes Cahusac considered the twitching body of his recent leader.
      Had Levasseur been a man of different temper, the affair might have ended
      in a very different manner. But, then, it is certain that Captain Blood
      would have adopted in dealing with him different tactics. As it was,
      Levasseur commanded neither love nor loyalty. The men who followed him
      were the very dregs of that vile trade, and cupidity was their only
      inspiration. Upon that cupidity Captain Blood had deftly played, until he
      had brought them to find Levasseur guilty of the one offence they deemed
      unpardonable, the crime of appropriating to himself something which might
      be converted into gold and shared amongst them all.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus now the threatening mob of buccaneers that came hastening to the
      theatre of that swift tragi-comedy were appeased by a dozen words of
      Cahusac&rsquo;s.
    </p>
    <p>
      Whilst still they hesitated, Blood added something to quicken their
      decision.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you will come to our anchorage, you shall receive at once your share
      of the booty of the Santiago, that you may dispose of it as you please.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They crossed the island, the two prisoners accompanying them, and later
      that day, the division made, they would have parted company but that
      Cahusac, at the instances of the men who had elected him Levasseur&rsquo;s
      successor, offered Captain Blood anew the services of that French
      contingent.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you will sail with me again,&rdquo; the Captain answered him, &ldquo;you may do so
      on the condition that you make your peace with the Dutch, and restore the
      brig and her cargo.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The condition was accepted, and Captain Blood went off to find his guests,
      the children of the Governor of Tortuga.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mademoiselle d&rsquo;Ogeron and her brother&mdash;the latter now relieved of his
      bonds&mdash;sat in the great cabin of the Arabella, whither they had been
      conducted.
    </p>
    <p>
      Wine and food had been placed upon the table by Benjamin, Captain Blood&rsquo;s
      negro steward and cook, who had intimated to them that it was for their
      entertainment. But it had remained untouched. Brother and sister sat there
      in agonized bewilderment, conceiving that their escape was but from
      frying-pan to fire. At length, overwrought by the suspense, mademoiselle
      flung herself upon her knees before her brother to implore his pardon for
      all the evil brought upon them by her wicked folly.
    </p>
    <p>
      M. d&rsquo;Ogeron was not in a forgiving mood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am glad that at least you realize what you have done. And now this
      other filibuster has bought you, and you belong to him. You realize that,
      too, I hope.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He might have said more, but he checked upon perceiving that the door was
      opening. Captain Blood, coming from settling matters with the followers of
      Levasseur, stood on the threshold. M. d&rsquo;Ogeron had not troubled to
      restrain his high-pitched voice, and the Captain had overheard the
      Frenchman&rsquo;s last two sentences. Therefore he perfectly understood why
      mademoiselle should bound up at sight of him, and shrink back in fear.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mademoiselle,&rdquo; said he in his vile but fluent French, &ldquo;I beg you to
      dismiss your fears. Aboard this ship you shall be treated with all honour.
      So soon as we are in case to put to sea again, we steer a course for
      Tortuga to take you home to your father. And pray do not consider that I
      have bought you, as your brother has just said. All that I have done has
      been to provide the ransom necessary to bribe a gang of scoundrels to
      depart from obedience to the arch-scoundrel who commanded them, and so
      deliver you from all peril. Count it, if you please, a friendly loan to be
      repaid entirely at your convenience.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mademoiselle stared at him in unbelief. M. d&rsquo;Ogeron rose to his feet.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Monsieur, is it possible that you are serious?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am. It may not happen often nowadays. I may be a pirate. But my ways
      are not the ways of Levasseur, who should have stayed in Europe, and
      practised purse-cutting. I have a sort of honour&mdash;shall we say, some
      rags of honour?&mdash;remaining me from better days.&rdquo; Then on a brisker
      note he added: &ldquo;We dine in an hour, and I trust that you will honour my
      table with your company. Meanwhile, Benjamin will see, monsieur, that you
      are more suitably provided in the matter of wardrobe.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He bowed to them, and turned to depart again, but mademoiselle detained
      him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Monsieur!&rdquo; she cried sharply.
    </p>
    <p>
      He checked and turned, whilst slowly she approached him, regarding him
      between dread and wonder.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, you are noble!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I shouldn&rsquo;t put it as high as that myself,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are, you are! And it is but right that you should know all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Madelon!&rdquo; her brother cried out, to restrain her.
    </p>
    <p>
      But she would not be restrained. Her surcharged heart must overflow in
      confidence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Monsieur, for what befell I am greatly at fault. This man&mdash;this
      Levasseur....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stared, incredulous in his turn. &ldquo;My God! Is it possible? That animal!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Abruptly she fell on her knees, caught his hand and kissed it before he
      could wrench it from her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you do?&rdquo; he cried.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;An amende. In my mind I dishonoured you by deeming you his like, by
      conceiving your fight with Levasseur a combat between jackals. On my
      knees, monsieur, I implore you to forgive me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood looked down upon her, and a smile broke on his lips,
      irradiating the blue eyes that looked so oddly light in that tawny face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why, child,&rdquo; said he, &ldquo;I might find it hard to forgive you the stupidity
      of having thought otherwise.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As he handed her to her feet again, he assured himself that he had behaved
      rather well in the affair. Then he sighed. That dubious fame of his that
      had spread so quickly across the Caribbean would by now have reached the
      ears of Arabella Bishop. That she would despise him, he could not doubt,
      deeming him no better than all the other scoundrels who drove this
      villainous buccaneering trade. Therefore he hoped that some echo of this
      deed might reach her also, and be set by her against some of that
      contempt. For the whole truth, which he withheld from Mademoiselle
      d&rsquo;Ogeron, was that in venturing his life to save her, he had been driven
      by the thought that the deed must be pleasing in the eyes of Miss Bishop
      could she but witness it.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0016" id="link2HCH0016">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XVI. THE TRAP
    </h2>
    <p>
      That affair of Mademoiselle d&rsquo;Ogeron bore as its natural fruit an
      improvement in the already cordial relations between Captain Blood and the
      Governor of Tortuga. At the fine stone house, with its green-jalousied
      windows, which M. d&rsquo;Ogeron had built himself in a spacious and luxuriant
      garden to the east of Cayona, the Captain became a very welcome guest. M.
      d&rsquo;Ogeron was in the Captain&rsquo;s debt for more than the twenty thousand
      pieces of eight which he had provided for mademoiselle&rsquo;s ransom; and
      shrewd, hard bargain-driver though he might be, the Frenchman could be
      generous and understood the sentiment of gratitude. This he now proved in
      every possible way, and under his powerful protection the credit of
      Captain Blood among the buccaneers very rapidly reached its zenith.
    </p>
    <p>
      So when it came to fitting out his fleet for that enterprise against
      Maracaybo, which had originally been Levasseur&rsquo;s project, he did not want
      for either ships or men to follow him. He recruited five hundred
      adventurers in all, and he might have had as many thousands if he could
      have offered them accommodation. Similarly without difficulty he might
      have increased his fleet to twice its strength of ships but that he
      preferred to keep it what it was. The three vessels to which he confined
      it were the Arabella, the La Foudre, which Cahusac now commanded with a
      contingent of some sixscore Frenchmen, and the Santiago, which had been
      refitted and rechristened the Elizabeth, after that Queen of England whose
      seamen had humbled Spain as Captain Blood now hoped to humble it again.
      Hagthorpe, in virtue of his service in the navy, was appointed by Blood to
      command her, and the appointment was confirmed by the men.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was some months after the rescue of Mademoiselle d&rsquo;Ogeron&mdash;in
      August of that year 1687&mdash;that this little fleet, after some minor
      adventures which I pass over in silence, sailed into the great lake of
      Maracaybo and effected its raid upon that opulent city of the Main.
    </p>
    <p>
      The affair did not proceed exactly as was hoped, and Blood&rsquo;s force came to
      find itself in a precarious position. This is best explained in the words
      employed by Cahusac&mdash;which Pitt has carefully recorded&mdash;in the
      course of an altercation that broke out on the steps of the Church of
      Nuestra Senora del Carmen, which Captain Blood had impiously appropriated
      for the purpose of a corps-de-garde. I have said already that he was a
      papist only when it suited him.
    </p>
    <p>
      The dispute was being conducted by Hagthorpe, Wolverstone, and Pitt on the
      one side, and Cahusac, out of whose uneasiness it all arose, on the other.
      Behind them in the sun-scorched, dusty square, sparsely fringed by palms,
      whose fronds drooped listlessly in the quivering heat, surged a couple of
      hundred wild fellows belonging to both parties, their own excitement
      momentarily quelled so that they might listen to what passed among their
      leaders.
    </p>
    <p>
      Cahusac appeared to be having it all his own way, and he raised his harsh,
      querulous voice so that all might hear his truculent denunciation. He
      spoke, Pitt tells us, a dreadful kind of English, which the shipmaster,
      however, makes little attempt to reproduce. His dress was as discordant as
      his speech. It was of a kind to advertise his trade, and ludicrously in
      contrast with the sober garb of Hagthorpe and the almost foppish
      daintiness of Jeremy Pitt. His soiled and blood-stained shirt of blue
      cotton was open in front, to cool his hairy breast, and the girdle about
      the waist of his leather breeches carried an arsenal of pistols and a
      knife, whilst a cutlass hung from a leather baldrick loosely slung about
      his body; above his countenance, broad and flat as a Mongolian&rsquo;s, a red
      scarf was swathed, turban-wise, about his head.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it that I have not warned you from the beginning that all was too
      easy?&rdquo; he demanded between plaintiveness and fury. &ldquo;I am no fool, my
      friends. I have eyes, me. And I see. I see an abandoned fort at the
      entrance of the lake, and nobody there to fire a gun at us when we came
      in. Then I suspect the trap. Who would not that had eyes and brain? Bah!
      we come on. What do we find? A city, abandoned like the fort; a city out
      of which the people have taken all things of value. Again I warn Captain
      Blood. It is a trap, I say. We are to come on; always to come on, without
      opposition, until we find that it is too late to go to sea again, that we
      cannot go back at all. But no one will listen to me. You all know so much
      more. Name of God! Captain Blood, he will go on, and we go on. We go to
      Gibraltar. True that at last, after long time, we catch the
      Deputy-Governor; true, we make him pay big ransom for Gibraltar; true
      between that ransom and the loot we return here with some two thousand
      pieces of eight. But what is it, in reality, will you tell me? Or shall I
      tell you? It is a piece of cheese&mdash;a piece of cheese in a mousetrap,
      and we are the little mice. Goddam! And the cats&mdash;oh, the cats they
      wait for us! The cats are those four Spanish ships of war that have come
      meantime. And they wait for us outside the bottle-neck of this lagoon.
      Mort de Dieu! That is what comes of the damned obstinacy of your fine
      Captain Blood.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Wolverstone laughed. Cahusac exploded in fury.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah, sangdieu! Tu ris, animal? You laugh! Tell me this: How do we get out
      again unless we accept the terms of Monsieur the Admiral of Spain?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      From the buccaneers at the foot of the steps came an angry rumble of
      approval. The single eye of the gigantic Wolverstone rolled terribly, and
      he clenched his great fists as if to strike the Frenchman, who was
      exposing them to mutiny. But Cahusac was not daunted. The mood of the men
      enheartened him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You think, perhaps, this your Captain Blood is the good God. That he can
      make miracles, eh? He is ridiculous, you know, this Captain Blood; with
      his grand air and his....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He checked. Out of the church at that moment, grand air and all, sauntered
      Peter Blood. With him came a tough, long-legged French sea-wolf named
      Yberville, who, though still young, had already won fame as a privateer
      commander before the loss of his own ship had driven him to take service
      under Blood. The Captain advanced towards that disputing group, leaning
      lightly upon his long ebony cane, his face shaded by a broad-plumed hat.
      There was in his appearance nothing of the buccaneer. He had much more the
      air of a lounger in the Mall or the Alameda&mdash;the latter rather, since
      his elegant suit of violet taffetas with gold-embroidered button-holes was
      in the Spanish fashion. But the long, stout, serviceable rapier, thrust up
      behind by the left hand resting lightly on the pummel, corrected the
      impression. That and those steely eyes of his announced the adventurer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You find me ridiculous, eh, Cahusac?&rdquo; said he, as he came to a halt
      before the Breton, whose anger seemed already to have gone out of him.
      &ldquo;What, then, must I find you?&rdquo; He spoke quietly, almost wearily. &ldquo;You will
      be telling them that we have delayed, and that it is the delay that has
      brought about our danger. But whose is the fault of that delay? We have
      been a month in doing what should have been done, and what but for your
      blundering would have been done, inside of a week.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah ca! Nom de Dieu! Was it my fault that....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Was it any one else&rsquo;s fault that you ran your ship La Foudre aground on
      the shoal in the middle of the lake? You would not be piloted. You knew
      your way. You took no soundings even. The result was that we lost three
      precious days in getting canoes to bring off your men and your gear. Those
      three days gave the folk at Gibraltar not only time to hear of our coming,
      but time in which to get away. After that, and because of it, we had to
      follow the Governor to his infernal island fortress, and a fortnight and
      best part of a hundred lives were lost in reducing it. That&rsquo;s how we come
      to have delayed until this Spanish fleet is fetched round from La Guayra
      by a guarda-costa; and if ye hadn&rsquo;t lost La Foudre, and so reduced our
      fleet from three ships to two, we should even now be able to fight our way
      through with a reasonable hope of succeeding. Yet you think it is for you
      to come hectoring here, upbraiding us for a situation that is just the
      result of your own ineptitude.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He spoke with a restraint which I trust you will agree was admirable when
      I tell you that the Spanish fleet guarding the bottle-neck exit of the
      great Lake of Maracaybo, and awaiting there the coming forth of Captain
      Blood with a calm confidence based upon its overwhelming strength, was
      commanded by his implacable enemy, Don Miguel de Espinosa y Valdez, the
      Admiral of Spain. In addition to his duty to his country, the Admiral had,
      as you know, a further personal incentive arising out of that business
      aboard the Encarnacion a year ago, and the death of his brother Don Diego;
      and with him sailed his nephew Esteban, whose vindictive zeal exceeded the
      Admiral&rsquo;s own.
    </p>
    <p>
      Yet, knowing all this, Captain Blood could preserve his calm in reproving
      the cowardly frenzy of one for whom the situation had not half the peril
      with which it was fraught for himself. He turned from Cahusac to address
      the mob of buccaneers, who had surged nearer to hear him, for he had not
      troubled to raise his voice. &ldquo;I hope that will correct some of the
      misapprehension that appears to have been disturbing you,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There&rsquo;s no good can come of talking of what&rsquo;s past and done,&rdquo; cried
      Cahusac, more sullen now than truculent. Whereupon Wolverstone laughed, a
      laugh that was like the neighing of a horse. &ldquo;The question is: what are we
      to do now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sure, now, there&rsquo;s no question at all,&rdquo; said Captain Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Indeed, but there is,&rdquo; Cahusac insisted. &ldquo;Don Miguel, the Spanish
      Admiral, have offer us safe passage to sea if we will depart at once, do
      no damage to the town, release our prisoners, and surrender all that we
      took at Gibraltar.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood smiled quietly, knowing precisely how much Don Miguel&rsquo;s word
      was worth. It was Yberville who replied, in manifest scorn of his
      compatriot:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Which argues that, even at this disadvantage as he has us, the Spanish
      Admiral is still afraid of us.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That can be only because he not know our real weakness,&rdquo; was the fierce
      retort. &ldquo;And, anyway, we must accept these terms. We have no choice. That
      is my opinion.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s not mine, now,&rdquo; said Captain Blood. &ldquo;So, I&rsquo;ve refused them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Refuse&rsquo;!&rdquo; Cahusac&rsquo;s broad face grew purple. A muttering from the men
      behind enheartened him. &ldquo;You have refuse&rsquo;? You have refuse&rsquo; already&mdash;and
      without consulting me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your disagreement could have altered nothing. You&rsquo;d have been outvoted,
      for Hagthorpe here was entirely of my own mind. Still,&rdquo; he went on, &ldquo;if
      you and your own French followers wish to avail yourselves of the
      Spaniard&rsquo;s terms, we shall not hinder you. Send one of your prisoners to
      announce it to the Admiral. Don Miguel will welcome your decision, you may
      be sure.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Cahusac glowered at him in silence for a moment. Then, having controlled
      himself, he asked in a concentrated voice:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Precisely what answer have you make to the Admiral?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A smile irradiated the face and eyes of Captain Blood. &ldquo;I have answered
      him that unless within four-and-twenty hours we have his parole to stand
      out to sea, ceasing to dispute our passage or hinder our departure, and a
      ransom of fifty thousand pieces of eight for Maracaybo, we shall reduce
      this beautiful city to ashes, and thereafter go out and destroy his
      fleet.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The impudence of it left Cahusac speechless. But among the English
      buccaneers in the square there were many who savoured the audacious humour
      of the trapped dictating terms to the trappers. Laughter broke from them.
      It spread into a roar of acclamation; for bluff is a weapon dear to every
      adventurer. Presently, when they understood it, even Cahusac&rsquo;s French
      followers were carried off their feet by that wave of jocular enthusiasm,
      until in his truculent obstinacy Cahusac remained the only dissentient. He
      withdrew in mortification. Nor was he to be mollified until the following
      day brought him his revenge. This came in the shape of a messenger from
      Don Miguel with a letter in which the Spanish Admiral solemnly vowed to
      God that, since the pirates had refused his magnanimous offer to permit
      them to surrender with the honours of war, he would now await them at the
      mouth of the lake there to destroy them on their coming forth. He added
      that should they delay their departure, he would so soon as he was
      reenforced by a fifth ship, the Santo Nino, on its way to join him from La
      Guayra, himself come inside to seek them at Maracaybo.
    </p>
    <p>
      This time Captain Blood was put out of temper.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Trouble me no more,&rdquo; he snapped at Cahusac, who came growling to him
      again. &ldquo;Send word to Don Miguel that you have seceded from me. He&rsquo;ll give
      you safe conduct, devil a doubt. Then take one of the sloops, order your
      men aboard and put to sea, and the devil go with you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Cahusac would certainly have adopted that course if only his men had been
      unanimous in the matter. They, however, were torn between greed and
      apprehension. If they went they must abandon their share of the plunder,
      which was considerable, as well as the slaves and other prisoners they had
      taken. If they did this, and Captain Blood should afterwards contrive to
      get away unscathed&mdash;and from their knowledge of his resourcefulness,
      the thing, however unlikely, need not be impossible&mdash;he must profit
      by that which they now relinquished. This was a contingency too bitter for
      contemplation. And so, in the end, despite all that Cahusac could say, the
      surrender was not to Don Miguel, but to Peter Blood. They had come into
      the venture with him, they asserted, and they would go out of it with him
      or not at all. That was the message he received from them that same
      evening by the sullen mouth of Cahusac himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      He welcomed it, and invited the Breton to sit down and join the council
      which was even then deliberating upon the means to be employed. This
      council occupied the spacious patio of the Governor&rsquo;s house&mdash;which
      Captain Blood had appropriated to his own uses&mdash;a cloistered stone
      quadrangle in the middle of which a fountain played coolly under a trellis
      of vine. Orange-trees grew on two sides of it, and the still, evening air
      was heavy with the scent of them. It was one of those pleasant
      exterior-interiors which Moorish architects had introduced to Spain and
      the Spaniards had carried with them to the New World.
    </p>
    <p>
      Here that council of war, composed of six men in all, deliberated until
      late that night upon the plan of action which Captain Blood put forward.
    </p>
    <p>
      The great freshwater lake of Maracaybo, nourished by a score of rivers
      from the snow-capped ranges that surround it on two sides, is some hundred
      and twenty miles in length and almost the same distance across at its
      widest. It is&mdash;as has been indicated&mdash;in the shape of a great
      bottle having its neck towards the sea at Maracaybo.
    </p>
    <p>
      Beyond this neck it widens again, and then the two long, narrow strips of
      land known as the islands of Vigilias and Palomas block the channel,
      standing lengthwise across it. The only passage out to sea for vessels of
      any draught lies in the narrow strait between these islands. Palomas,
      which is some ten miles in length, is unapproachable for half a mile on
      either side by any but the shallowest craft save at its eastern end,
      where, completely commanding the narrow passage out to sea, stands the
      massive fort which the buccaneers had found deserted upon their coming. In
      the broader water between this passage and the bar, the four Spanish ships
      were at anchor in mid-channel. The Admiral&rsquo;s Encarnacion, which we already
      know, was a mighty galleon of forty-eight great guns and eight small. Next
      in importance was the Salvador with thirty-six guns; the other two, the
      Infanta and the San Felipe, though smaller vessels, were still formidable
      enough with their twenty guns and a hundred and fifty men apiece.
    </p>
    <p>
      Such was the fleet of which the gauntlet was to be run by Captain Blood
      with his own Arabella of forty guns, the Elizabeth of twenty-six, and two
      sloops captured at Gibraltar, which they had indifferently armed with four
      culverins each. In men they had a bare four hundred survivors of the five
      hundred-odd that had left Tortuga, to oppose to fully a thousand Spaniards
      manning the galleons.
    </p>
    <p>
      The plan of action submitted by Captain Blood to that council was a
      desperate one, as Cahusac uncompromisingly pronounced it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why, so it is,&rdquo; said the Captain. &ldquo;But I&rsquo;ve done things more desperate.&rdquo;
       Complacently he pulled at a pipe that was loaded with that fragrant
      Sacerdotes tobacco for which Gibraltar was famous, and of which they had
      brought away some hogsheads. &ldquo;And what is more, they&rsquo;ve succeeded. Audaces
      fortuna juvat. Bedad, they knew their world, the old Romans.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He breathed into his companions and even into Cahusac some of his own
      spirit of confidence, and in confidence all went busily to work. For three
      days from sunrise to sunset, the buccaneers laboured and sweated to
      complete the preparations for the action that was to procure them their
      deliverance. Time pressed. They must strike before Don Miguel de Espinosa
      received the reenforcement of that fifth galleon, the Santo Nino, which
      was coming to join him from La Guayra.
    </p>
    <p>
      Their principal operations were on the larger of the two sloops captured
      at Gibraltar; to which vessel was assigned the leading part in Captain
      Blood&rsquo;s scheme. They began by tearing down all bulkheads, until they had
      reduced her to the merest shell, and in her sides they broke open so many
      ports that her gunwale was converted into the semblance of a grating. Next
      they increased by a half-dozen the scuttles in her deck, whilst into her
      hull they packed all the tar and pitch and brimstone that they could find
      in the town, to which they added six barrels of gunpowder, placed on end
      like guns at the open ports on her larboard side. On the evening of the
      fourth day, everything being now in readiness, all were got aboard, and
      the empty, pleasant city of Maracaybo was at last abandoned. But they did
      not weigh anchor until some two hours after midnight. Then, at last, on
      the first of the ebb, they drifted silently down towards the bar with all
      canvas furled save only their spiltsails, which, so as to give them
      steering way, were spread to the faint breeze that stirred through the
      purple darkness of the tropical night.
    </p>
    <p>
      The order of their going was as follows: Ahead went the improvised
      fire-ship in charge of Wolverstone, with a crew of six volunteers, each of
      whom was to have a hundred pieces of eight over and above his share of
      plunder as a special reward. Next came the Arabella. She was followed at a
      distance by the Elizabeth, commanded by Hagthorpe, with whom was the now
      shipless Cahusac and the bulk of his French followers. The rear was
      brought up by the second sloop and some eight canoes, aboard of which had
      been shipped the prisoners, the slaves, and most of the captured
      merchandise. The prisoners were all pinioned, and guarded by four
      buccaneers with musketoons who manned these boats in addition to the two
      fellows who were to sail them. Their place was to be in the rear and they
      were to take no part whatever in the coming fight.
    </p>
    <p>
      As the first glimmerings of opalescent dawn dissolved the darkness, the
      straining eyes of the buccaneers were able to make out the tall rigging of
      the Spanish vessels, riding at anchor less than a quarter of a mile ahead.
      Entirely without suspicion as the Spaniards were, and rendered confident
      by their own overwhelming strength, it is unlikely that they used a
      vigilance keener than their careless habit. Certain it is that they did
      not sight Blood&rsquo;s fleet in that dim light until some time after Blood&rsquo;s
      fleet had sighted them. By the time that they had actively roused
      themselves, Wolverstone&rsquo;s sloop was almost upon them, speeding under
      canvas which had been crowded to her yards the moment the galleons had
      loomed into view.
    </p>
    <p>
      Straight for the Admiral&rsquo;s great ship, the Encarnacion, did Wolverstone
      head the sloop; then, lashing down the helm, he kindled from a match that
      hung ready lighted beside him a great torch of thickly plaited straw that
      had been steeped in bitumen. First it glowed, then as he swung it round
      his head, it burst into flame, just as the slight vessel went crashing and
      bumping and scraping against the side of the flagship, whilst rigging
      became tangled with rigging, to the straining of yards and snapping of
      spars overhead. His six men stood at their posts on the larboard side,
      stark naked, each armed with a grapnel, four of them on the gunwale, two
      of them aloft. At the moment of impact these grapnels were slung to bind
      the Spaniard to them, those aloft being intended to complete and preserve
      the entanglement of the rigging.
    </p>
    <p>
      Aboard the rudely awakened galleon all was confused hurrying, scurrying,
      trumpeting, and shouting. At first there had been a desperately hurried
      attempt to get up the anchor; but this was abandoned as being already too
      late; and conceiving themselves on the point of being boarded, the
      Spaniards stood to arms to ward off the onslaught. Its slowness in coming
      intrigued them, being so different from the usual tactics of the
      buccaneers. Further intrigued were they by the sight of the gigantic
      Wolverstone speeding naked along his deck with a great flaming torch held
      high. Not until he had completed his work did they begin to suspect the
      truth&mdash;that he was lighting slow-matches&mdash;and then one of their
      officers rendered reckless by panic ordered a boarding-party on to the
      shop.
    </p>
    <p>
      The order came too late. Wolverstone had seen his six fellows drop
      overboard after the grapnels were fixed, and then had sped, himself, to
      the starboard gunwale. Thence he flung his flaming torch down the nearest
      gaping scuttle into the hold, and thereupon dived overboard in his turn,
      to be picked up presently by the longboat from the Arabella. But before
      that happened the sloop was a thing of fire, from which explosions were
      hurling blazing combustibles aboard the Encarnacion, and long tongues of
      flame were licking out to consume the galleon, beating back those daring
      Spaniards who, too late, strove desperately to cut her adrift.
    </p>
    <p>
      And whilst the most formidable vessel of the Spanish fleet was thus being
      put out of action at the outset, Blood had sailed in to open fire upon the
      Salvador. First athwart her hawse he had loosed a broadside that had swept
      her decks with terrific effect, then going on and about, he had put a
      second broadside into her hull at short range. Leaving her thus
      half-crippled, temporarily, at least, and keeping to his course, he had
      bewildered the crew of the Infanta by a couple of shots from the chasers
      on his beak-head, then crashed alongside to grapple and board her, whilst
      Hagthorpe was doing the like by the San Felipe.
    </p>
    <p>
      And in all this time not a single shot had the Spaniards contrived to
      fire, so completely had they been taken by surprise, and so swift and
      paralyzing had been Blood&rsquo;s stroke.
    </p>
    <p>
      Boarded now and faced by the cold steel of the buccaneers, neither the San
      Felipe nor the Infanta offered much resistance. The sight of their admiral
      in flames, and the Salvador drifting crippled from the action, had so
      utterly disheartened them that they accounted themselves vanquished, and
      laid down their arms.
    </p>
    <p>
      If by a resolute stand the Salvador had encouraged the other two undamaged
      vessels to resistance, the Spaniards might well have retrieved the
      fortunes of the day. But it happened that the Salvador was handicapped in
      true Spanish fashion by being the treasure-ship of the fleet, with plate
      on board to the value of some fifty thousand pieces. Intent above all upon
      saving this from falling into the hands of the pirates, Don Miguel, who,
      with a remnant of his crew, had meanwhile transferred himself aboard her,
      headed her down towards Palomas and the fort that guarded the passage.
      This fort the Admiral, in those days of waiting, had taken the precaution
      secretly to garrison and rearm. For the purpose he had stripped the fort
      of Cojero, farther out on the gulf, of its entire armament, which included
      some cannon-royal of more than ordinary range and power.
    </p>
    <p>
      With no suspicion of this, Captain Blood gave chase, accompanied by the
      Infanta, which was manned now by a prize-crew under the command of
      Yberville. The stern chasers of the Salvador desultorily returned the
      punishing fire of the pursuers; but such was the damage she, herself,
      sustained, that presently, coming under the guns of the fort, she began to
      sink, and finally settled down in the shallows with part of her hull above
      water. Thence, some in boats and some by swimming, the Admiral got his
      crew ashore on Palomas as best he could.
    </p>
    <p>
      And then, just as Captain Blood accounted the victory won, and that his
      way out of that trap to the open sea beyond lay clear, the fort suddenly
      revealed its formidable and utterly unsuspected strength. With a roar the
      cannons-royal proclaimed themselves, and the Arabella staggered under a
      blow that smashed her bulwarks at the waist and scattered death and
      confusion among the seamen gathered there.
    </p>
    <p>
      Had not Pitt, her master, himself seized the whipstaff and put the helm
      hard over to swing her sharply off to starboard, she must have suffered
      still worse from the second volley that followed fast upon the first.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meanwhile it had fared even worse with the frailer Infanta. Although hit
      by one shot only, this had crushed her larboard timbers on the waterline,
      starting a leak that must presently have filled her, but for the prompt
      action of the experienced Yberville in ordering her larboard guns to be
      flung overboard. Thus lightened, and listing now to starboard, he fetched
      her about, and went staggering after the retreating Arabella, followed by
      the fire of the fort, which did them, however, little further damage.
    </p>
    <p>
      Out of range, at last, they lay to, joined by the Elizabeth and the San
      Felipe, to consider their position.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0017" id="link2HCH0017">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XVII. THE DUPES
    </h2>
    <p>
      It was a crestfallen Captain Blood who presided over that hastily summoned
      council held on the poop-deck of the Arabella in the brilliant morning
      sunshine. It was, he declared afterwards, one of the bitterest moments in
      his career. He was compelled to digest the fact that having conducted the
      engagement with a skill of which he might justly be proud, having
      destroyed a force so superior in ships and guns and men that Don Miguel de
      Espinosa had justifiably deemed it overwhelming, his victory was rendered
      barren by three lucky shots from an unsuspected battery by which they had
      been surprised. And barren must their victory remain until they could
      reduce the fort that still remained to defend the passage.
    </p>
    <p>
      At first Captain Blood was for putting his ships in order and making the
      attempt there and then. But the others dissuaded him from betraying an
      impetuosity usually foreign to him, and born entirely of chagrin and
      mortification, emotions which will render unreasonable the most reasonable
      of men. With returning calm, he surveyed the situation. The Arabella was
      no longer in case to put to sea; the Infanta was merely kept afloat by
      artifice, and the San Felipe was almost as sorely damaged by the fire she
      had sustained from the buccaneers before surrendering.
    </p>
    <p>
      Clearly, then, he was compelled to admit in the end that nothing remained
      but to return to Maracaybo, there to refit the ships before attempting to
      force the passage.
    </p>
    <p>
      And so, back to Maracaybo came those defeated victors of that short,
      terrible fight. And if anything had been wanting further to exasperate
      their leader, he had it in the pessimism of which Cahusac did not
      economize expressions. Transported at first to heights of dizzy
      satisfaction by the swift and easy victory of their inferior force that
      morning, the Frenchman was now plunged back and more deeply than ever into
      the abyss of hopelessness. And his mood infected at least the main body of
      his own followers.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is the end,&rdquo; he told Captain Blood. &ldquo;This time we are checkmated.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll take the liberty of reminding you that you said the same before,&rdquo;
       Captain Blood answered him as patiently as he could. &ldquo;Yet you&rsquo;ve seen what
      you&rsquo;ve seen, and you&rsquo;ll not deny that in ships and guns we are returning
      stronger than we went. Look at our present fleet, man.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am looking at it,&rdquo; said Cahusac.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pish! Ye&rsquo;re a white-livered cur when all is said.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You call me a coward?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll take that liberty.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Breton glared at him, breathing hard. But he had no mind to ask
      satisfaction for the insult. He knew too well the kind of satisfaction
      that Captain Blood was likely to afford him. He remembered the fate of
      Levasseur. So he confined himself to words.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is too much! You go too far!&rdquo; he complained bitterly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Look you, Cahusac: it&rsquo;s sick and tired I am of your perpetual whining and
      complaining when things are not as smooth as a convent dining-table. If ye
      wanted things smooth and easy, ye shouldn&rsquo;t have taken to the sea, and ye
      should never ha&rsquo; sailed with me, for with me things are never smooth and
      easy. And that, I think, is all I have to say to you this morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Cahusac flung away cursing, and went to take the feeling of his men.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood went off to give his surgeon&rsquo;s skill to the wounded, among
      whom he remained engaged until late afternoon. Then, at last, he went
      ashore, his mind made up, and returned to the house of the Governor, to
      indite a truculent but very scholarly letter in purest Castilian to Don
      Miguel.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have shown your excellency this morning of what I am capable,&rdquo; he
      wrote. &ldquo;Although outnumbered by more than two to one in men, in ships, and
      in guns, I have sunk or captured the vessels of the great fleet with which
      you were to come to Maracaybo to destroy us. So that you are no longer in
      case to carry out your boast, even when your reenforcements on the Santo
      Nino, reach you from La Guayra. From what has occurred, you may judge of
      what must occur. I should not trouble your excellency with this letter but
      that I am a humane man, abhorring bloodshed. Therefore before proceeding
      to deal with your fort, which you may deem invincible, as I have dealt
      already with your fleet, which you deemed invincible, I make you, purely
      out of humanitarian considerations, this last offer of terms. I will spare
      this city of Maracaybo and forthwith evacuate it, leaving behind me the
      forty prisoners I have taken, in consideration of your paying me the sum
      of fifty thousand pieces of eight and one hundred head of cattle as a
      ransom, thereafter granting me unmolested passage of the bar. My
      prisoners, most of whom are persons of consideration, I will retain as
      hostages until after my departure, sending them back in the canoes which
      we shall take with us for that purpose. If your excellency should be so
      ill-advised as to refuse these terms, and thereby impose upon me the
      necessity of reducing your fort at the cost of some lives, I warn you that
      you may expect no quarter from us, and that I shall begin by leaving a
      heap of ashes where this pleasant city of Maracaybo now stands.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The letter written, he bade them bring him from among the prisoners the
      Deputy-Governor of Maracaybo, who had been taken at Gibraltar. Disclosing
      its contents to him, he despatched him with it to Don Miguel.
    </p>
    <p>
      His choice of a messenger was shrewd. The Deputy-Governor was of all men
      the most anxious for the deliverance of his city, the one man who on his
      own account would plead most fervently for its preservation at all costs
      from the fate with which Captain Blood was threatening it. And as he
      reckoned so it befell. The Deputy-Governor added his own passionate
      pleading to the proposals of the letter.
    </p>
    <p>
      But Don Miguel was of stouter heart. True, his fleet had been partly
      destroyed and partly captured. But then, he argued, he had been taken
      utterly by surprise. That should not happen again. There should be no
      surprising the fort. Let Captain Blood do his worst at Maracaybo, there
      should be a bitter reckoning for him when eventually he decided&mdash;as,
      sooner or later, decide he must&mdash;to come forth. The Deputy-Governor
      was flung into panic. He lost his temper, and said some hard things to the
      Admiral. But they were not as hard as the thing the Admiral said to him in
      answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Had you been as loyal to your King in hindering the entrance of these
      cursed pirates as I shall be in hindering their going forth again, we
      should not now find ourselves in our present straits. So weary me no more
      with your coward counsels. I make no terms with Captain Blood. I know my
      duty to my King, and I intend to perform it. I also know my duty to
      myself. I have a private score with this rascal, and I intend to settle
      it. Take you that message back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      So back to Maracaybo, back to his own handsome house in which Captain
      Blood had established his quarters, came the Deputy-Governor with the
      Admiral&rsquo;s answer. And because he had been shamed into a show of spirit by
      the Admiral&rsquo;s own stout courage in adversity, he delivered it as
      truculently as the Admiral could have desired. &ldquo;And is it like that?&rdquo; said
      Captain Blood with a quiet smile, though the heart of him sank at this
      failure of his bluster. &ldquo;Well, well, it&rsquo;s a pity now that the Admiral&rsquo;s so
      headstrong. It was that way he lost his fleet, which was his own to lose.
      This pleasant city of Maracaybo isn&rsquo;t. So no doubt he&rsquo;ll lose it with
      fewer misgivings. I am sorry. Waste, like bloodshed, is a thing abhorrent
      to me. But there ye are! I&rsquo;ll have the faggots to the place in the
      morning, and maybe when he sees the blaze to-morrow night he&rsquo;ll begin to
      believe that Peter Blood is a man of his word. Ye may go, Don Francisco.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Deputy-Governor went out with dragging feet, followed by guards, his
      momentary truculence utterly spent.
    </p>
    <p>
      But no sooner had he departed than up leapt Cahusac, who had been of the
      council assembled to receive the Admiral&rsquo;s answer. His face was white and
      his hands shook as he held them out in protest.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Death of my life, what have you to say now?&rdquo; he cried, his voice husky.
      And without waiting to hear what it might be, he raved on: &ldquo;I knew you not
      frighten the Admiral so easy. He hold us entrap&rsquo;, and he knows it; yet you
      dream that he will yield himself to your impudent message. Your fool
      letter it have seal&rsquo; the doom of us all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have ye done?&rdquo; quoth Blood quietly, as the Frenchman paused for breath.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, I have not.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then spare me the rest. It&rsquo;ll be of the same quality, devil a doubt, and
      it doesn&rsquo;t help us to solve the riddle that&rsquo;s before us.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But what are you going to do? Is it that you will tell me?&rdquo; It was not a
      question, it was a demand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How the devil do I know? I was hoping you&rsquo;d have some ideas yourself. But
      since Ye&rsquo;re so desperately concerned to save your skin, you and those that
      think like you are welcome to leave us. I&rsquo;ve no doubt at all the Spanish
      Admiral will welcome the abatement of our numbers even at this late date.
      Ye shall have the sloop as a parting gift from us, and ye can join Don
      Miguel in the fort for all I care, or for all the good ye&rsquo;re likely to be
      to us in this present pass.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is to my men to decide,&rdquo; Cahusac retorted, swallowing his fury, and on
      that stalked out to talk to them, leaving the others to deliberate in
      peace.
    </p>
    <p>
      Next morning early he sought Captain Blood again. He found him alone in
      the patio, pacing to and fro, his head sunk on his breast. Cahusac mistook
      consideration for dejection. Each of us carries in himself a standard by
      which to measure his neighbour.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We have take&rsquo; you at your word, Captain,&rdquo; he announced, between
      sullenness and defiance. Captain Blood paused, shoulders hunched, hands
      behind his back, and mildly regarded the buccaneer in silence. Cahusac
      explained himself. &ldquo;Last night I send one of my men to the Spanish Admiral
      with a letter. I make him offer to capitulate if he will accord us passage
      with the honours of war. This morning I receive his answer. He accord us
      this on the understanding that we carry nothing away with us. My men they
      are embarking them on the sloop. We sail at once.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Bon voyage,&rdquo; said Captain Blood, and with a nod he turned on his heel
      again to resume his interrupted mediation.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is that all that you have to say to me?&rdquo; cried Cahusac.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There are other things,&rdquo; said Blood over his shoulder. &ldquo;But I know ye
      wouldn&rsquo;t like them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ha! Then it&rsquo;s adieu, my Captain.&rdquo; Venomously he added: &ldquo;It is my belief
      that we shall not meet again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your belief is my hope,&rdquo; said Captain Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      Cahusac flung away, obscenely vituperative. Before noon he was under way
      with his followers, some sixty dejected men who had allowed themselves to
      be persuaded by him into that empty-handed departure&mdash;in spite even
      of all that Yberville could do to prevent it. The Admiral kept faith with
      him, and allowed him free passage out to sea, which, from his knowledge of
      Spaniards, was more than Captain Blood had expected.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meanwhile, no sooner had the deserters weighed anchor than Captain Blood
      received word that the Deputy-Governor begged to be allowed to see him
      again. Admitted, Don Francisco at once displayed the fact that a night&rsquo;s
      reflection had quickened his apprehensions for the city of Maracaybo and
      his condemnation of the Admiral&rsquo;s intransigence.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood received him pleasantly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-morning to you, Don Francisco. I have postponed the bonfire until
      nightfall. It will make a better show in the dark.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Don Francisco, a slight, nervous, elderly man of high lineage and low
      vitality, came straight to business.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am here to tell you, Don Pedro, that if you will hold your hand for
      three days, I will undertake to raise the ransom you demand, which Don
      Miguel de Espinosa refuses.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood confronted him, a frown contracting the dark brows above his
      light eyes:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And where will you be raising it?&rdquo; quoth he, faintly betraying his
      surprise.
    </p>
    <p>
      Don Francisco shook his head. &ldquo;That must remain my affair,&rdquo; he answered.
      &ldquo;I know where it is to be found, and my compatriots must contribute. Give
      me leave for three days on parole, and I will see you fully satisfied.
      Meanwhile my son remains in your hands as a hostage for my return.&rdquo; And
      upon that he fell to pleading. But in this he was crisply interrupted.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By the Saints! Ye&rsquo;re a bold man, Don Francisco, to come to me with such a
      tale&mdash;to tell me that ye know where the ransom&rsquo;s to be raised, and
      yet to refuse to say. D&rsquo;ye think now that with a match between your
      fingers ye&rsquo;d grow more communicative?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      If Don Francisco grew a shade paler, yet again he shook his head.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That was the way of Morgan and L&rsquo;Ollonais and other pirates. But it is
      not the way of Captain Blood. If I had doubted that I should not have
      disclosed so much.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Captain laughed. &ldquo;You old rogue,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;Ye play upon my vanity, do
      you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Upon your honour, Captain.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The honour of a pirate? Ye&rsquo;re surely crazed!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The honour of Captain Blood,&rdquo; Don Francisco insisted. &ldquo;You have the
      repute of making war like a gentleman.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood laughed again, on a bitter, sneering note that made Don
      Francisco fear the worst. He was not to guess that it was himself the
      Captain mocked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s merely because it&rsquo;s more remunerative in the end. And that is why
      you are accorded the three days you ask for. So about it, Don Francisco.
      You shall have what mules you need. I&rsquo;ll see to it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Away went Don Francisco on his errand, leaving Captain Blood to reflect,
      between bitterness and satisfaction, that a reputation for as much
      chivalry as is consistent with piracy is not without its uses.
    </p>
    <p>
      Punctually on the third day the Deputy-Governor was back in Maracaybo with
      his mules laden with plate and money to the value demanded and a herd of a
      hundred head of cattle driven in by negro slaves.
    </p>
    <p>
      These bullocks were handed over to those of the company who ordinarily
      were boucan-hunters, and therefore skilled in the curing of meats, and for
      best part of a week thereafter they were busy at the waterside with the
      quartering and salting of carcases.
    </p>
    <p>
      While this was doing on the one hand and the ships were being refitted for
      sea on the other, Captain Blood was pondering the riddle on the solution
      of which his own fate depended. Indian spies whom he employed brought him
      word that the Spaniards, working at low tide, had salved the thirty guns
      of the Salvador, and thus had added yet another battery to their already
      overwhelming strength. In the end, and hoping for inspiration on the spot,
      Captain Blood made a reconnaissance in person. At the risk of his life,
      accompanied by two friendly Indians, he crossed to the island in a canoe
      under cover of dark. They concealed themselves and the canoe in the short
      thick scrub with which that side of the island was densely covered, and
      lay there until daybreak. Then Blood went forward alone, and with infinite
      precaution, to make his survey. He went to verify a suspicion that he had
      formed, and approached the fort as nearly as he dared and a deal nearer
      than was safe.
    </p>
    <p>
      On all fours he crawled to the summit of an eminence a mile or so away,
      whence he found himself commanding a view of the interior dispositions of
      the stronghold. By the aid of a telescope with which he had equipped
      himself he was able to verify that, as he had suspected and hoped, the
      fort&rsquo;s artillery was all mounted on the seaward side.
    </p>
    <p>
      Satisfied, he returned to Maracaybo, and laid before the six who composed
      his council&mdash;Pitt, Hagthorpe, Yberville, Wolverstone, Dyke, and Ogle&mdash;a
      proposal to storm the fort from the landward side. Crossing to the island
      under cover of night, they would take the Spaniards by surprise and
      attempt to overpower them before they could shift their guns to meet the
      onslaught.
    </p>
    <p>
      With the exception of Wolverstone, who was by temperament the kind of man
      who favours desperate chances, those officers received the proposal
      coldly. Hagthorpe incontinently opposed it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a harebrained scheme, Peter,&rdquo; he said gravely, shaking his handsome
      head. &ldquo;Consider now that we cannot depend upon approaching unperceived to
      a distance whence we might storm the fort before the cannon could be
      moved. But even if we could, we can take no cannon ourselves; we must
      depend entirely upon our small arms, and how shall we, a bare three
      hundred&rdquo; (for this was the number to which Cahusac&rsquo;s defection had reduced
      them), &ldquo;cross the open to attack more than twice that number under cover?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The others&mdash;Dyke, Ogle, Yberville, and even Pitt, whom loyalty to
      Blood may have made reluctant&mdash;loudly approved him. When they had
      done, &ldquo;I have considered all,&rdquo; said Captain Blood. &ldquo;I have weighed the
      risks and studied how to lessen them. In these desperate straits....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He broke off abruptly. A moment he frowned, deep in thought; then his face
      was suddenly alight with inspiration. Slowly he drooped his head, and sat
      there considering, weighing, chin on breast. Then he nodded, muttering,
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; and again, &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; He looked up, to face them. &ldquo;Listen,&rdquo; he cried.
      &ldquo;You may be right. The risks may be too heavy. Whether or not, I have
      thought of a better way. That which should have been the real attack shall
      be no more than a feint. Here, then, is the plan I now propose.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He talked swiftly and clearly, and as he talked one by one his officers&rsquo; 
      faces became alight with eagerness. When he had done, they cried as with
      one voice that he had saved them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is yet to be proved in action,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      Since for the last twenty-four hours all had been in readiness for
      departure, there was nothing now to delay them, and it was decided to move
      next morning.
    </p>
    <p>
      Such was Captain Blood&rsquo;s assurance of success that he immediately freed
      the prisoners held as hostages, and even the negro slaves, who were
      regarded by the others as legitimate plunder. His only precaution against
      those released prisoners was to order them into the church and there lock
      them up, to await deliverance at the hands of those who should presently
      be coming into the city.
    </p>
    <p>
      Then, all being aboard the three ships, with the treasure safely stowed in
      their holds and the slaves under hatches, the buccaneers weighed anchor
      and stood out for the bar, each vessel towing three piraguas astern.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Admiral, beholding their stately advance in the full light of noon,
      their sails gleaming white in the glare of the sunlight, rubbed his long,
      lean hands in satisfaction, and laughed through his teeth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;At last!&rdquo; he cried. &ldquo;God delivers him into my hands!&rdquo; He turned to the
      group of staring officers behind him. &ldquo;Sooner or later it had to be,&rdquo; he
      said. &ldquo;Say now, gentlemen, whether I am justified of my patience. Here end
      to-day the troubles caused to the subjects of the Catholic King by this
      infamous Don Pedro Sangre, as he once called himself to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He turned to issue orders, and the fort became lively as a hive. The guns
      were manned, the gunners already kindling fuses, when the buccaneer fleet,
      whilst still heading for Palomas, was observed to bear away to the west.
      The Spaniards watched them, intrigued.
    </p>
    <p>
      Within a mile and a half to westward of the fort, and within a half-mile
      of the shore&mdash;that is to say, on the very edge of the shoal water
      that makes Palomas unapproachable on either side by any but vessels of the
      shallowest draught&mdash;the four ships cast anchor well within the
      Spaniards&rsquo; view, but just out of range of their heaviest cannon.
    </p>
    <p>
      Sneeringly the Admiral laughed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aha! They hesitate, these English dogs! Por Dios, and well they may.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They will be waiting for night,&rdquo; suggested his nephew, who stood at his
      elbow quivering with excitement.
    </p>
    <p>
      Don Miguel looked at him, smiling. &ldquo;And what shall the night avail them in
      this narrow passage, under the very muzzles of my guns? Be sure, Esteban,
      that to-night your father will be paid for.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He raised his telescope to continue his observation of the buccaneers. He
      saw that the piraguas towed by each vessel were being warped alongside,
      and he wondered a little what this manoeuver might portend. Awhile those
      piraguas were hidden from view behind the hulls. Then one by one they
      reappeared, rowing round and away from the ships, and each boat, he
      observed, was crowded with armed men. Thus laden, they were headed for the
      shore, at a point where it was densely wooded to the water&rsquo;s edge. The
      eyes of the wondering Admiral followed them until the foliage screened
      them from his view.
    </p>
    <p>
      Then he lowered his telescope and looked at his officers.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What the devil does it mean?&rdquo; he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      None answered him, all being as puzzled as he was himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      After a little while, Esteban, who kept his eyes on the water, plucked at
      his uncle&rsquo;s sleeve. &ldquo;There they go!&rdquo; he cried, and pointed.
    </p>
    <p>
      And there, indeed, went the piraguas on their way back to the ships. But
      now it was observed that they were empty, save for the men who rowed them.
      Their armed cargo had been left ashore.
    </p>
    <p>
      Back to the ships they pulled, to return again presently with a fresh load
      of armed men, which similarly they conveyed to Palomas. And at last one of
      the Spanish officers ventured an explanation:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They are going to attack us by land&mdash;to attempt to storm the fort.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of course.&rdquo; The Admiral smiled. &ldquo;I had guessed it. Whom the gods would
      destroy they first make mad.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Shall we make a sally?&rdquo; urged Esteban, in his excitement.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A sally? Through that scrub? That would be to play into their hands. No,
      no, we will wait here to receive this attack. Whenever it comes, it is
      themselves will be destroyed, and utterly. Have no doubt of that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But by evening the Admiral&rsquo;s equanimity was not quite so perfect. By then
      the piraguas had made a half-dozen journeys with their loads of men, and
      they had landed also&mdash;as Don Miguel had clearly observed through his
      telescope&mdash;at least a dozen guns.
    </p>
    <p>
      His countenance no longer smiled; it was a little wrathful and a little
      troubled now as he turned again to his officers.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who was the fool who told me that they number but three hundred men in
      all? They have put at least twice that number ashore already.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Amazed as he was, his amazement would have been deeper had he been told
      the truth: that there was not a single buccaneer or a single gun ashore on
      Palomas. The deception had been complete. Don Miguel could not guess that
      the men he had beheld in those piraguas were always the same; that on the
      journeys to the shore they sat and stood upright in full view; and that on
      the journeys back to the ships, they lay invisible at the bottom of the
      boats, which were thus made to appear empty.
    </p>
    <p>
      The growing fears of the Spanish soldiery at the prospect of a night
      attack from the landward side by the entire buccaneer force&mdash;and a
      force twice as strong as they had suspected the pestilent Blood to command&mdash;began
      to be communicated to the Admiral.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the last hours of fading daylight, the Spaniards did precisely what
      Captain Blood so confidently counted that they would do&mdash;precisely
      what they must do to meet the attack, preparations for which had been so
      thoroughly simulated. They set themselves to labour like the damned at
      those ponderous guns emplaced to command the narrow passage out to sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      Groaning and sweating, urged on by the curses and even the whips of their
      officers, they toiled in a frenzy of panic-stricken haste to shift the
      greater number and the more powerful of their guns across to the landward
      side, there to emplace them anew, so that they might be ready to receive
      the attack which at any moment now might burst upon them from the woods
      not half a mile away.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus, when night fell, although in mortal anxiety of the onslaught of
      those wild devils whose reckless courage was a byword on the seas of the
      Main, at least the Spaniards were tolerably prepared for it. Waiting, they
      stood to their guns.
    </p>
    <p>
      And whilst they waited thus, under cover of the darkness and as the tide
      began to ebb, Captain Blood&rsquo;s fleet weighed anchor quietly; and, as once
      before, with no more canvas spread than that which their sprits could
      carry, so as to give them steering way&mdash;and even these having been
      painted black&mdash;the four vessels, without a light showing, groped
      their way by soundings to the channel which led to that narrow passage out
      to sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Elizabeth and the Infanta, leading side by side, were almost abreast
      of the fort before their shadowy bulks and the soft gurgle of water at
      their prows were detected by the Spaniards, whose attention until that
      moment had been all on the other side. And now there arose on the night
      air such a sound of human baffled fury as may have resounded about Babel
      at the confusion of tongues. To heighten that confusion, and to scatter
      disorder among the Spanish soldiery, the Elizabeth emptied her larboard
      guns into the fort as she was swept past on the swift ebb.
    </p>
    <p>
      At once realizing&mdash;though not yet how&mdash;he had been duped, and
      that his prey was in the very act of escaping after all, the Admiral
      frantically ordered the guns that had been so laboriously moved to be
      dragged back to their former emplacements, and commanded his gunners
      meanwhile to the slender batteries that of all his powerful, but now
      unavailable, armament still remained trained upon the channel. With these,
      after the loss of some precious moments, the fort at last made fire.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was answered by a terrific broadside from the Arabella, which had now
      drawn abreast, and was crowding canvas to her yards. The enraged and
      gibbering Spaniards had a brief vision of her as the line of flame spurted
      from her red flank, and the thunder of her broadside drowned the noise of
      the creaking halyards. After that they saw her no more. Assimilated by the
      friendly darkness which the lesser Spanish guns were speculatively
      stabbing, the escaping ships fired never another shot that might assist
      their baffled and bewildered enemies to locate them.
    </p>
    <p>
      Some slight damage was sustained by Blood&rsquo;s fleet. But by the time the
      Spaniards had resolved their confusion into some order of dangerous
      offence, that fleet, well served by a southerly breeze, was through the
      narrows and standing out to sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus was Don Miguel de Espinosa left to chew the bitter cud of a lost
      opportunity, and to consider in what terms he would acquaint the Supreme
      Council of the Catholic King that Peter Blood had got away from Maracaybo,
      taking with him two twenty-gun frigates that were lately the property of
      Spain, to say nothing of two hundred and fifty thousand pieces of eight
      and other plunder. And all this in spite of Don Miguel&rsquo;s four galleons and
      his heavily armed fort that at one time had held the pirates so securely
      trapped.
    </p>
    <p>
      Heavy, indeed, grew the account of Peter Blood, which Don Miguel swore
      passionately to Heaven should at all costs to himself be paid in full.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nor were the losses already detailed the full total of those suffered on
      this occasion by the King of Spain. For on the following evening, off the
      coast of Oruba, at the mouth of the Gulf of Venezuela, Captain Blood&rsquo;s
      fleet came upon the belated Santo Nino, speeding under full sail to
      reenforce Don Miguel at Maracaybo.
    </p>
    <p>
      At first the Spaniard had conceived that she was meeting the victorious
      fleet of Don Miguel, returning from the destruction of the pirates. When
      at comparatively close quarters the pennon of St. George soared to the
      Arabella&rsquo;s masthead to disillusion her, the Santo Nino chose the better
      part of valour, and struck her flag.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood ordered her crew to take to the boats, and land themselves
      at Oruba or wherever else they pleased. So considerate was he that to
      assist them he presented them with several of the piraguas which he still
      had in tow.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You will find,&rdquo; said he to her captain, &ldquo;that Don Miguel is in an
      extremely bad temper. Commend me to him, and say that I venture to remind
      him that he must blame himself for all the ills that have befallen him.
      The evil has recoiled upon him which he loosed when he sent his brother
      unofficially to make a raid upon the island of Barbados. Bid him think
      twice before he lets his devils loose upon an English settlement again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With that he dismissed the Captain, who went over the side of the Santo
      Nino, and Captain Blood proceeded to investigate the value of this further
      prize. When her hatches were removed, a human cargo was disclosed in her
      hold.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Slaves,&rdquo; said Wolverstone, and persisted in that belief cursing Spanish
      devilry until Cahusac crawled up out of the dark bowels of the ship, and
      stood blinking in the sunlight.
    </p>
    <p>
      There was more than sunlight to make the Breton pirate blink. And those
      that crawled out after him&mdash;the remnants of his crew&mdash;cursed him
      horribly for the pusillanimity which had brought them into the ignominy of
      owing their deliverance to those whom they had deserted as lost beyond
      hope.
    </p>
    <p>
      Their sloop had encountered and had been sunk three days ago by the Santo
      Nino, and Cahusac had narrowly escaped hanging merely that for some time
      he might be a mock among the Brethren of the Coast.
    </p>
    <p>
      For many a month thereafter he was to hear in Tortuga the jeering taunt:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where do you spend the gold that you brought back from Maracaybo?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0018" id="link2HCH0018">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XVIII. THE MILAGROSA
    </h2>
    <p>
      The affair at Maracaybo is to be considered as Captain Blood&rsquo;s
      buccaneering masterpiece. Although there is scarcely one of the many
      actions that he fought&mdash;recorded in such particular detail by Jeremy
      Pitt&mdash;which does not afford some instance of his genius for naval
      tactics, yet in none is this more shiningly displayed than in those two
      engagements by which he won out of the trap which Don Miguel de Espinosa
      had sprung upon him.
    </p>
    <p>
      The fame which he had enjoyed before this, great as it already was, is
      dwarfed into insignificance by the fame that followed. It was a fame such
      as no buccaneer&mdash;not even Morgan&mdash;has ever boasted, before or
      since.
    </p>
    <p>
      In Tortuga, during the months he spent there refitting the three ships he
      had captured from the fleet that had gone out to destroy him, he found
      himself almost an object of worship in the eyes of the wild Brethren of
      the Coast, all of whom now clamoured for the honour of serving under him.
      It placed him in the rare position of being able to pick and choose the
      crews for his augmented fleet, and he chose fastidiously. When next he
      sailed away it was with a fleet of five fine ships in which went something
      over a thousand men. Thus you behold him not merely famous, but really
      formidable. The three captured Spanish vessels he had renamed with a
      certain scholarly humour the Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos, a grimly
      jocular manner of conveying to the world that he made them the arbiters of
      the fate of any Spaniards he should henceforth encounter upon the seas.
    </p>
    <p>
      In Europe the news of this fleet, following upon the news of the Spanish
      Admiral&rsquo;s defeat at Maracaybo, produced something of a sensation. Spain
      and England were variously and unpleasantly exercised, and if you care to
      turn up the diplomatic correspondence exchanged on the subject, you will
      find that it is considerable and not always amiable.
    </p>
    <p>
      And meanwhile in the Caribbean, the Spanish Admiral Don Miguel de Espinosa
      might be said&mdash;to use a term not yet invented in his day&mdash;to
      have run amok. The disgrace into which he had fallen as a result of the
      disasters suffered at the hands of Captain Blood had driven the Admiral
      all but mad. It is impossible, if we impose our minds impartially, to
      withhold a certain sympathy from Don Miguel. Hate was now this unfortunate
      man&rsquo;s daily bread, and the hope of vengeance an obsession to his mind. As
      a madman he went raging up and down the Caribbean seeking his enemy, and
      in the meantime, as an hors d&rsquo;oeuvre to his vindictive appetite, he fell
      upon any ship of England or of France that loomed above his horizon.
    </p>
    <p>
      I need say no more to convey the fact that this illustrious sea-captain
      and great gentleman of Castile had lost his head, and was become a pirate
      in his turn. The Supreme Council of Castile might anon condemn him for his
      practices. But how should that matter to one who already was condemned
      beyond redemption? On the contrary, if he should live to lay the audacious
      and ineffable Blood by the heels, it was possible that Spain might view
      his present irregularities and earlier losses with a more lenient eye.
    </p>
    <p>
      And so, reckless of the fact that Captain Blood was now in vastly superior
      strength, the Spaniard sought him up and down the trackless seas. But for
      a whole year he sought him vainly. The circumstances in which eventually
      they met are very curious.
    </p>
    <p>
      An intelligent observation of the facts of human existence will reveal to
      shallow-minded folk who sneer at the use of coincidence in the arts of
      fiction and drama that life itself is little more than a series of
      coincidences. Open the history of the past at whatsoever page you will,
      and there you shall find coincidence at work bringing about events that
      the merest chance might have averted. Indeed, coincidence may be defined
      as the very tool used by Fate to shape the destinies of men and nations.
    </p>
    <p>
      Observe it now at work in the affairs of Captain Blood and of some others.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the 15th September of the year 1688&mdash;a memorable year in the
      annals of England&mdash;three ships were afloat upon the Caribbean, which
      in their coming conjunctions were to work out the fortunes of several
      persons.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first of these was Captain Blood&rsquo;s flagship the Arabella, which had
      been separated from the buccaneer fleet in a hurricane off the Lesser
      Antilles. In somewhere about 17 deg. N. Lat., and 74 deg. Long., she was
      beating up for the Windward Passage, before the intermittent southeasterly
      breezes of that stifling season, homing for Tortuga, the natural
      rendezvous of the dispersed vessels.
    </p>
    <p>
      The second ship was the great Spanish galleon, the Milagrosa, which,
      accompanied by the smaller frigate Hidalga, lurked off the Caymites, to
      the north of the long peninsula that thrusts out from the southwest corner
      of Hispaniola. Aboard the Milagrosa sailed the vindictive Don Miguel.
    </p>
    <p>
      The third and last of these ships with which we are at present concerned
      was an English man-of-war, which on the date I have given was at anchor in
      the French port of St. Nicholas on the northwest coast of Hispaniola. She
      was on her way from Plymouth to Jamaica, and carried on board a very
      distinguished passenger in the person of Lord Julian Wade, who came
      charged by his kinsman, my Lord Sunderland, with a mission of some
      consequence and delicacy, directly arising out of that vexatious
      correspondence between England and Spain.
    </p>
    <p>
      The French Government, like the English, excessively annoyed by the
      depredations of the buccaneers, and the constant straining of relations
      with Spain that ensued, had sought in vain to put them down by enjoining
      the utmost severity against them upon her various overseas governors. But
      these, either&mdash;like the Governor of Tortuga&mdash;throve out of a
      scarcely tacit partnership with the filibusters, or&mdash;like the
      Governor of French Hispaniola&mdash;felt that they were to be encouraged
      as a check upon the power and greed of Spain, which might otherwise be
      exerted to the disadvantage of the colonies of other nations. They looked,
      indeed, with apprehension upon recourse to any vigorous measures which
      must result in driving many of the buccaneers to seek new hunting-grounds
      in the South Sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      To satisfy King James&rsquo;s anxiety to conciliate Spain, and in response to
      the Spanish Ambassador&rsquo;s constant and grievous expostulations, my Lord
      Sunderland, the Secretary of State, had appointed a strong man to the
      deputy-governorship of Jamaica. This strong man was that Colonel Bishop
      who for some years now had been the most influential planter in Barbados.
    </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop had accepted the post, and departed from the plantations in
      which his great wealth was being amassed with an eagerness that had its
      roots in a desire to pay off a score of his own with Peter Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      From his first coming to Jamaica, Colonel Bishop had made himself felt by
      the buccaneers. But do what he might, the one buccaneer whom he made his
      particular quarry&mdash;that Peter Blood who once had been his slave&mdash;eluded
      him ever, and continued undeterred and in great force to harass the
      Spaniards upon sea and land, and to keep the relations between England and
      Spain in a state of perpetual ferment, particularly dangerous in those
      days when the peace of Europe was precariously maintained.
    </p>
    <p>
      Exasperated not only by his own accumulated chagrin, but also by the
      reproaches for his failure which reached him from London, Colonel Bishop
      actually went so far as to consider hunting his quarry in Tortuga itself
      and making an attempt to clear the island of the buccaneers it sheltered.
      Fortunately for himself, he abandoned the notion of so insane an
      enterprise, deterred not only by the enormous natural strength of the
      place, but also by the reflection that a raid upon what was, nominally at
      least, a French settlement, must be attended by grave offence to France.
      Yet short of some such measure, it appeared to Colonel Bishop that he was
      baffled. He confessed as much in a letter to the Secretary of State.
    </p>
    <p>
      This letter and the state of things which it disclosed made my Lord
      Sunderland despair of solving this vexatious problem by ordinary means. He
      turned to the consideration of extraordinary ones, and bethought him of
      the plan adopted with Morgan, who had been enlisted into the King&rsquo;s
      service under Charles II. It occurred to him that a similar course might
      be similarly effective with Captain Blood. His lordship did not omit the
      consideration that Blood&rsquo;s present outlawry might well have been
      undertaken not from inclination, but under stress of sheer necessity; that
      he had been forced into it by the circumstances of his transportation, and
      that he would welcome the opportunity of emerging from it.
    </p>
    <p>
      Acting upon this conclusion, Sunderland sent out his kinsman, Lord Julian
      Wade, with some commissions made out in blank, and full directions as to
      the course which the Secretary considered it desirable to pursue and yet
      full discretion in the matter of pursuing them. The crafty Sunderland,
      master of all labyrinths of intrigue, advised his kinsman that in the
      event of his finding Blood intractable, or judging for other reasons that
      it was not desirable to enlist him in the King&rsquo;s service, he should turn
      his attention to the officers serving under him, and by seducing them away
      from him leave him so weakened that he must fall an easy victim to Colonel
      Bishop&rsquo;s fleet.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Royal Mary&mdash;the vessel bearing that ingenious, tolerably
      accomplished, mildly dissolute, entirely elegant envoy of my Lord
      Sunderland&rsquo;s&mdash;made a good passage to St. Nicholas, her last port of
      call before Jamaica. It was understood that as a preliminary Lord Julian
      should report himself to the Deputy-Governor at Port Royal, whence at need
      he might have himself conveyed to Tortuga. Now it happened that the
      Deputy-Governor&rsquo;s niece had come to St. Nicholas some months earlier on a
      visit to some relatives, and so that she might escape the insufferable
      heat of Jamaica in that season. The time for her return being now at hand,
      a passage was sought for her aboard the Royal Mary, and in view of her
      uncle&rsquo;s rank and position promptly accorded.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian hailed her advent with satisfaction. It gave a voyage that had
      been full of interest for him just the spice that it required to achieve
      perfection as an experience. His lordship was one of your gallants to whom
      existence that is not graced by womankind is more or less of a stagnation.
      Miss Arabella Bishop&mdash;this straight up and down slip of a girl with
      her rather boyish voice and her almost boyish ease of movement&mdash;was
      not perhaps a lady who in England would have commanded much notice in my
      lord&rsquo;s discerning eyes. His very sophisticated, carefully educated tastes
      in such matters inclined him towards the plump, the languishing, and the
      quite helplessly feminine. Miss Bishop&rsquo;s charms were undeniable. But they
      were such that it would take a delicate-minded man to appreciate them; and
      my Lord Julian, whilst of a mind that was very far from gross, did not
      possess the necessary degree of delicacy. I must not by this be understood
      to imply anything against him.
    </p>
    <p>
      It remained, however, that Miss Bishop was a young woman and a lady; and
      in the latitude into which Lord Julian had strayed this was a phenomenon
      sufficiently rare to command attention. On his side, with his title and
      position, his personal grace and the charm of a practised courtier, he
      bore about him the atmosphere of the great world in which normally he had
      his being&mdash;a world that was little more than a name to her, who had
      spent most of her life in the Antilles. It is not therefore wonderful that
      they should have been attracted to each other before the Royal Mary was
      warped out of St. Nicholas. Each could tell the other much upon which the
      other desired information. He could regale her imagination with stories of
      St. James&rsquo;s&mdash;in many of which he assigned himself a heroic, or at
      least a distinguished part&mdash;and she could enrich his mind with
      information concerning this new world to which he had come.
    </p>
    <p>
      Before they were out of sight of St. Nicholas they were good friends, and
      his lordship was beginning to correct his first impressions of her and to
      discover the charm of that frank, straightforward attitude of comradeship
      which made her treat every man as a brother. Considering how his mind was
      obsessed with the business of his mission, it is not wonderful that he
      should have come to talk to her of Captain Blood. Indeed, there was a
      circumstance that directly led to it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wonder now,&rdquo; he said, as they were sauntering on the poop, &ldquo;if you ever
      saw this fellow Blood, who was at one time on your uncle&rsquo;s plantations as
      a slave.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Bishop halted. She leaned upon the taffrail, looking out towards the
      receding land, and it was a moment before she answered in a steady, level
      voice:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I saw him often. I knew him very well.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye don&rsquo;t say!&rdquo; His lordship was slightly moved out of an imperturbability
      that he had studiously cultivated. He was a young man of perhaps
      eight-and-twenty, well above the middle height in stature and appearing
      taller by virtue of his exceeding leanness. He had a thin, pale, rather
      pleasing hatchet-face, framed in the curls of a golden periwig, a
      sensitive mouth and pale blue eyes that lent his countenance a dreamy
      expression, a rather melancholy pensiveness. But they were alert,
      observant eyes notwithstanding, although they failed on this occasion to
      observe the slight change of colour which his question had brought to Miss
      Bishop&rsquo;s cheeks or the suspiciously excessive composure of her answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye don&rsquo;t say!&rdquo; he repeated, and came to lean beside her. &ldquo;And what manner
      of man did you find him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In those days I esteemed him for an unfortunate gentleman.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You were acquainted with his story?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He told it me. That is why I esteemed him&mdash;for the calm fortitude
      with which he bore adversity. Since then, considering what he has done, I
      have almost come to doubt if what he told me of himself was true.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you mean of the wrongs he suffered at the hands of the Royal
      Commission that tried the Monmouth rebels, there&rsquo;s little doubt that it
      would be true enough. He was never out with Monmouth; that is certain. He
      was convicted on a point of law of which he may well have been ignorant
      when he committed what was construed into treason. But, faith, he&rsquo;s had
      his revenge, after a fashion.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That,&rdquo; she said in a small voice, &ldquo;is the unforgivable thing. It has
      destroyed him&mdash;deservedly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Destroyed him?&rdquo; His lordship laughed a little. &ldquo;Be none so sure of that.
      He has grown rich, I hear. He has translated, so it is said, his Spanish
      spoils into French gold, which is being treasured up for him in France.
      His future father-in-law, M. d&rsquo;Ogeron, has seen to that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;His future father-in-law?&rdquo; said she, and stared at him round-eyed, with
      parted lips. Then added: &ldquo;M. d&rsquo;Ogeron? The Governor of Tortuga?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The same. You see the fellow&rsquo;s well protected. It&rsquo;s a piece of news I
      gathered in St. Nicholas. I am not sure that I welcome it, for I am not
      sure that it makes any easier a task upon which my kinsman, Lord
      Sunderland, has sent me hither. But there it is. You didn&rsquo;t know?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She shook her head without replying. She had averted her face, and her
      eyes were staring down at the gently heaving water. After a moment she
      spoke, her voice steady and perfectly controlled.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But surely, if this were true, there would have been an end to his piracy
      by now. If he... if he loved a woman and was betrothed, and was also rich
      as you say, surely he would have abandoned this desperate life, and...&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why, so I thought,&rdquo; his lordship interrupted, &ldquo;until I had the
      explanation. D&rsquo;Ogeron is avaricious for himself and for his child. And as
      for the girl, I&rsquo;m told she&rsquo;s a wild piece, fit mate for such a man as
      Blood. Almost I marvel that he doesn&rsquo;t marry her and take her a-roving
      with him. It would be no new experience for her. And I marvel, too, at
      Blood&rsquo;s patience. He killed a man to win her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He killed a man for her, do you say?&rdquo; There was horror now in her voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes&mdash;a French buccaneer named Levasseur. He was the girl&rsquo;s lover and
      Blood&rsquo;s associate on a venture. Blood coveted the girl, and killed
      Levasseur to win her. Pah! It&rsquo;s an unsavoury tale, I own. But men live by
      different codes out in these parts....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She had turned to face him. She was pale to the lips, and her hazel eyes
      were blazing, as she cut into his apologies for Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They must, indeed, if his other associates allowed him to live after
      that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, the thing was done in fair fight, I am told.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who told you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A man who sailed with them, a Frenchman named Cahusac, whom I found in a
      waterside tavern in St. Nicholas. He was Levasseur&rsquo;s lieutenant, and he
      was present on the island where the thing happened, and when Levasseur was
      killed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And the girl? Did he say the girl was present, too?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. She was a witness of the encounter. Blood carried her off when he
      had disposed of his brother-buccaneer.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And the dead man&rsquo;s followers allowed it?&rdquo; He caught the note of
      incredulity in her voice, but missed the note of relief with which it was
      blent. &ldquo;Oh, I don&rsquo;t believe the tale. I won&rsquo;t believe it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I honour you for that, Miss Bishop. It strained my own belief that men
      should be so callous, until this Cahusac afforded me the explanation.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What?&rdquo; She checked her unbelief, an unbelief that had uplifted her from
      an inexplicable dismay. Clutching the rail, she swung round to face his
      lordship with that question. Later he was to remember and perceive in her
      present behaviour a certain oddness which went disregarded now.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Blood purchased their consent, and his right to carry the girl off. He
      paid them in pearls that were worth more than twenty thousand pieces of
      eight.&rdquo; His lordship laughed again with a touch of contempt. &ldquo;A handsome
      price! Faith, they&rsquo;re scoundrels all&mdash;just thieving, venal curs. And
      faith, it&rsquo;s a pretty tale this for a lady&rsquo;s ear.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked away from him again, and found that her sight was blurred.
      After a moment in a voice less steady than before she asked him:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why should this Frenchman have told you such a tale? Did he hate this
      Captain Blood?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I did not gather that,&rdquo; said his lordship slowly. &ldquo;He related it... oh,
      just as a commonplace, an instance of buccaneering ways.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A commonplace!&rdquo; said she. &ldquo;My God! A commonplace!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I dare say that we are all savages under the cloak that civilization
      fashions for us,&rdquo; said his lordship. &ldquo;But this Blood, now, was a man of
      considerable parts, from what else this Cahusac told me. He was a bachelor
      of medicine.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is true, to my own knowledge.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And he has seen much foreign service on sea and land. Cahusac said&mdash;though
      this I hardly credit&mdash;that he had fought under de Ruyter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That also is true,&rdquo; said she. She sighed heavily. &ldquo;Your Cahusac seems to
      have been accurate enough. Alas!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are sorry, then?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked at him. She was very pale, he noticed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As we are sorry to hear of the death of one we have esteemed. Once I held
      him in regard for an unfortunate but worthy gentleman. Now....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She checked, and smiled a little crooked smile. &ldquo;Such a man is best
      forgotten.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And upon that she passed at once to speak of other things. The friendship,
      which it was her great gift to command in all she met, grew steadily
      between those two in the little time remaining, until the event befell
      that marred what was promising to be the pleasantest stage of his
      lordship&rsquo;s voyage.
    </p>
    <p>
      The marplot was the mad-dog Spanish Admiral, whom they encountered on the
      second day out, when halfway across the Gulf of Gonaves. The Captain of
      the Royal Mary was not disposed to be intimidated even when Don Miguel
      opened fire on him. Observing the Spaniard&rsquo;s plentiful seaboard towering
      high above the water and offering him so splendid a mark, the Englishman
      was moved to scorn. If this Don who flew the banner of Castile wanted a
      fight, the Royal Mary was just the ship to oblige him. It may be that he
      was justified of his gallant confidence, and that he would that day have
      put an end to the wild career of Don Miguel de Espinosa, but that a lucky
      shot from the Milagrosa got among some powder stored in his forecastle,
      and blew up half his ship almost before the fight had started. How the
      powder came there will never now be known, and the gallant Captain himself
      did not survive to enquire into it.
    </p>
    <p>
      Before the men of the Royal Mary had recovered from their consternation,
      their captain killed and a third of their number destroyed with him, the
      ship yawing and rocking helplessly in a crippled state, the Spaniards
      boarded her.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the Captain&rsquo;s cabin under the poop, to which Miss Bishop had been
      conducted for safety, Lord Julian was seeking to comfort and encourage
      her, with assurances that all would yet be well, at the very moment when
      Don Miguel was stepping aboard. Lord Julian himself was none so steady,
      and his face was undoubtedly pale. Not that he was by any means a coward.
      But this cooped-up fighting on an unknown element in a thing of wood that
      might at any moment founder under his feet into the depths of ocean was
      disturbing to one who could be brave enough ashore. Fortunately Miss
      Bishop did not appear to be in desperate need of the poor comfort he was
      in case to offer. Certainly she, too, was pale, and her hazel eyes may
      have looked a little larger than usual. But she had herself well in hand.
      Half sitting, half leaning on the Captain&rsquo;s table, she preserved her
      courage sufficiently to seek to calm the octoroon waiting-woman who was
      grovelling at her feet in a state of terror.
    </p>
    <p>
      And then the cabin-door flew open, and Don Miguel himself, tall,
      sunburned, and aquiline of face, strode in. Lord Julian span round, to
      face him, and clapped a hand to his sword.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Spaniard was brisk and to the point.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be a fool,&rdquo; he said in his own tongue, &ldquo;or you&rsquo;ll come by a fool&rsquo;s
      end. Your ship is sinking.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There were three or four men in morions behind Don Miguel, and Lord Julian
      realized the position. He released his hilt, and a couple of feet or so of
      steel slid softly back into the scabbard. But Don Miguel smiled, with a
      flash of white teeth behind his grizzled beard, and held out his hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you please,&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian hesitated. His eyes strayed to Miss Bishop&rsquo;s. &ldquo;I think you had
      better,&rdquo; said that composed young lady, whereupon with a shrug his
      lordship made the required surrender.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Come you&mdash;all of you&mdash;aboard my ship,&rdquo; Don Miguel invited them,
      and strode out.
    </p>
    <p>
      They went, of course. For one thing the Spaniard had force to compel them;
      for another a ship which he announced to be sinking offered them little
      inducement to remain. They stayed no longer than was necessary to enable
      Miss Bishop to collect some spare articles of dress and my lord to snatch
      up his valise.
    </p>
    <p>
      As for the survivors in that ghastly shambles that had been the Royal
      Mary, they were abandoned by the Spaniards to their own resources. Let
      them take to the boats, and if those did not suffice them, let them swim
      or drown. If Lord Julian and Miss Bishop were retained, it was because Don
      Miguel perceived their obvious value. He received them in his cabin with
      great urbanity. Urbanely he desired to have the honour of being acquainted
      with their names.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian, sick with horror of the spectacle he had just witnessed,
      commanded himself with difficulty to supply them. Then haughtily he
      demanded to know in his turn the name of their aggressor. He was in an
      exceedingly ill temper. He realized that if he had done nothing positively
      discreditable in the unusual and difficult position into which Fate had
      thrust him, at least he had done nothing creditable. This might have
      mattered less but that the spectator of his indifferent performance was a
      lady. He was determined if possible to do better now.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am Don Miguel de Espinosa,&rdquo; he was answered. &ldquo;Admiral of the Navies of
      the Catholic King.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian gasped. If Spain made such a hubbub about the depredations of
      a runagate adventurer like Captain Blood, what could not England answer
      now?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you tell me, then, why you behave like a damned pirate?&rdquo; he asked.
      And added: &ldquo;I hope you realize what will be the consequences, and the
      strict account to which you shall be brought for this day&rsquo;s work, for the
      blood you have murderously shed, and for your violence to this lady and to
      myself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I offer you no violence,&rdquo; said the Admiral, smiling, as only the man who
      holds the trumps can smile. &ldquo;On the contrary, I have saved your lives....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Saved our lives!&rdquo; Lord Julian was momentarily speechless before such
      callous impudence. &ldquo;And what of the lives you have destroyed in wanton
      butchery? By God, man, they shall cost you dear.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Don Miguel&rsquo;s smile persisted. &ldquo;It is possible. All things are possible.
      Meantime it is your own lives that will cost you dear. Colonel Bishop is a
      rich man; and you, milord, are no doubt also rich. I will consider and fix
      your ransom.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So that you&rsquo;re just the damned murderous pirate I was supposing you,&rdquo;
       stormed his lordship. &ldquo;And you have the impudence to call yourself the
      Admiral of the Navies of the Catholic King? We shall see what your
      Catholic King will have to say to it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Admiral ceased to smile. He revealed something of the rage that had
      eaten into his brain. &ldquo;You do not understand,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It is that I
      treat you English heretic dogs just as you English heretic dogs have
      treated Spaniards upon the seas&mdash;you robbers and thieves out of hell!
      I have the honesty to do it in my own name&mdash;but you, you perfidious
      beasts, you send your Captain Bloods, your Hagthorpes, and your Morgans
      against us and disclaim responsibility for what they do. Like Pilate, you
      wash your hands.&rdquo; He laughed savagely. &ldquo;Let Spain play the part of Pilate.
      Let her disclaim responsibility for me, when your ambassador at the
      Escurial shall go whining to the Supreme Council of this act of piracy by
      Don Miguel de Espinosa.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Captain Blood and the rest are not admirals of England!&rdquo; cried Lord
      Julian.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are they not? How do I know? How does Spain know? Are you not liars all,
      you English heretics?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sir!&rdquo; Lord Julian&rsquo;s voice was harsh as a rasp, his eyes flashed.
      Instinctively he swung a hand to the place where his sword habitually
      hung. Then he shrugged and sneered: &ldquo;Of course,&rdquo; said he, &ldquo;it sorts with
      all I have heard of Spanish honour and all that I have seen of yours that
      you should insult a man who is unarmed and your prisoner.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Admiral&rsquo;s face flamed scarlet. He half raised his hand to strike. And
      then, restrained, perhaps, by the very words that had cloaked the
      retorting insult, he turned on his heel abruptly and went out without
      answering.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0019" id="link2HCH0019">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XIX. THE MEETING
    </h2>
    <p>
      As the door slammed after the departing Admiral, Lord Julian turned to
      Arabella, and actually smiled. He felt that he was doing better, and
      gathered from it an almost childish satisfaction&mdash;childish in all the
      circumstances. &ldquo;Decidedly I think I had the last word there,&rdquo; he said,
      with a toss of his golden ringlets.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Bishop, seated at the cabin-table, looked at him steadily, without
      returning his smile. &ldquo;Does it matter, then, so much, having the last word?
      I am thinking of those poor fellows on the Royal Mary. Many of them have
      had their last word, indeed. And for what? A fine ship sunk, a score of
      lives lost, thrice that number now in jeopardy, and all for what?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are overwrought, ma&rsquo;am. I....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Overwrought!&rdquo; She uttered a single sharp note of laughter. &ldquo;I assure you
      I am calm. I am asking you a question, Lord Julian. Why has this Spaniard
      done all this? To what purpose?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You heard him.&rdquo; Lord Julian shrugged angrily. &ldquo;Blood-lust,&rdquo; he explained
      shortly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Blood-lust?&rdquo; she asked. She was amazed. &ldquo;Does such a thing exist, then?
      It is insane, monstrous.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Fiendish,&rdquo; his lordship agreed. &ldquo;Devil&rsquo;s work.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t understand. At Bridgetown three years ago there was a Spanish
      raid, and things were done that should have been impossible to men,
      horrible, revolting things which strain belief, which seem, when I think
      of them now, like the illusions of some evil dream. Are men just beasts?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Men?&rdquo; said Lord Julian, staring. &ldquo;Say Spaniards, and I&rsquo;ll agree.&rdquo; He was
      an Englishman speaking of hereditary foes. And yet there was a measure of
      truth in what he said. &ldquo;This is the Spanish way in the New World. Faith,
      almost it justifies such men as Blood of what they do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She shivered, as if cold, and setting her elbows on the table, she took
      her chin in her hands, and sat staring before her.
    </p>
    <p>
      Observing her, his lordship noticed how drawn and white her face had
      grown. There was reason enough for that, and for worse. Not any other
      woman of his acquaintance would have preserved her self-control in such an
      ordeal; and of fear, at least, at no time had Miss Bishop shown any sign.
      It is impossible that he did not find her admirable.
    </p>
    <p>
      A Spanish steward entered bearing a silver chocolate service and a box of
      Peruvian candies, which he placed on the table before the lady.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With the Admiral&rsquo;s homage,&rdquo; he said, then bowed, and withdrew.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Bishop took no heed of him or his offering, but continued to stare
      before her, lost in thought. Lord Julian took a turn in the long low
      cabin, which was lighted by a skylight above and great square windows
      astern. It was luxuriously appointed: there were rich Eastern rugs on the
      floor, well-filled bookcases stood against the bulkheads, and there was a
      carved walnut sideboard laden with silverware. On a long, low chest
      standing under the middle stern port lay a guitar that was gay with
      ribbons. Lord Julian picked it up, twanged the strings once as if moved by
      nervous irritation, and put it down.
    </p>
    <p>
      He turned again to face Miss Bishop.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I came out here,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;to put down piracy. But&mdash;blister me!&mdash;I
      begin to think that the French are right in desiring piracy to continue as
      a curb upon these Spanish scoundrels.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was to be strongly confirmed in that opinion before many hours were
      past. Meanwhile their treatment at the hands of Don Miguel was considerate
      and courteous. It confirmed the opinion, contemptuously expressed to his
      lordship by Miss Bishop, that since they were to be held to ransom they
      need not fear any violence or hurt. A cabin was placed at the disposal of
      the lady and her terrified woman, and another at Lord Julian&rsquo;s. They were
      given the freedom of the ship, and bidden to dine at the Admiral&rsquo;s table;
      nor were his further intentions regarding them mentioned, nor yet his
      immediate destination.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Milagrosa, with her consort the Hidalga rolling after her, steered a
      south by westerly course, then veered to the southeast round Cape Tiburon,
      and thereafter, standing well out to sea, with the land no more than a
      cloudy outline to larboard, she headed directly east, and so ran straight
      into the arms of Captain Blood, who was making for the Windward Passage,
      as we know. That happened early on the following morning. After having
      systematically hunted his enemy in vain for a year, Don Miguel chanced
      upon him in this unexpected and entirely fortuitous fashion. But that is
      the ironic way of Fortune. It was also the way of Fortune that Don Miguel
      should thus come upon the Arabella at a time when, separated from the rest
      of the fleet, she was alone and at a disadvantage. It looked to Don Miguel
      as if the luck which so long had been on Blood&rsquo;s side had at last veered
      in his own favour.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Bishop, newly risen, had come out to take the air on the quarter-deck
      with his lordship in attendance&mdash;as you would expect of so gallant a
      gentleman&mdash;when she beheld the big red ship that had once been the
      Cinco Llagas out of Cadiz. The vessel was bearing down upon them, her
      mountains of snowy canvas bellying forward, the long pennon with the cross
      of St. George fluttering from her main truck in the morning breeze, the
      gilded portholes in her red hull and the gilded beak-head aflash in the
      morning sun.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Bishop was not to recognize this for that same Cinco Llagas which she
      had seen once before&mdash;on a tragic day in Barbados three years ago. To
      her it was just a great ship that was heading resolutely, majestically,
      towards them, and an Englishman to judge by the pennon she was flying. The
      sight thrilled her curiously; it awoke in her an uplifting sense of pride
      that took no account of the danger to herself in the encounter that must
      now be inevitable.
    </p>
    <p>
      Beside her on the poop, whither they had climbed to obtain a better view,
      and equally arrested and at gaze, stood Lord Julian. But he shared none of
      her exultation. He had been in his first sea-fight yesterday, and he felt
      that the experience would suffice him for a very considerable time. This,
      I insist, is no reflection upon his courage.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Look,&rdquo; said Miss Bishop, pointing; and to his infinite amazement he
      observed that her eyes were sparkling. Did she realize, he wondered, what
      was afoot? Her next sentence resolved his doubt. &ldquo;She is English, and she
      comes resolutely on. She means to fight.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;God help her, then,&rdquo; said his lordship gloomily. &ldquo;Her captain must be
      mad. What can he hope to do against two such heavy hulks as these? If they
      could so easily blow the Royal Mary out of the water, what will they do to
      this vessel? Look at that devil Don Miguel. He&rsquo;s utterly disgusting in his
      glee.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      From the quarter-deck, where he moved amid the frenzy of preparation, the
      Admiral had turned to flash a backward glance at his prisoners. His eyes
      were alight, his face transfigured. He flung out an arm to point to the
      advancing ship, and bawled something in Spanish that was lost to them in
      the noise of the labouring crew.
    </p>
    <p>
      They advanced to the poop-rail, and watched the bustle. Telescope in hand
      on the quarter-deck, Don Miguel was issuing his orders. Already the
      gunners were kindling their matches; sailors were aloft, taking in sail;
      others were spreading a stout rope net above the waist, as a protection
      against falling spars. And meanwhile Don Miguel had been signalling to his
      consort, in response to which the Hidalga had drawn steadily forward until
      she was now abeam of the Milagrosa, half cable&rsquo;s length to starboard, and
      from the height of the tall poop my lord and Miss Bishop could see her own
      bustle of preparation. And they could discern signs of it now aboard the
      advancing English ship as well. She was furling tops and mainsail,
      stripping in fact to mizzen and sprit for the coming action. Thus, almost
      silently without challenge or exchange of signals, had action been
      mutually determined.
    </p>
    <p>
      Of necessity now, under diminished sail, the advance of the Arabella was
      slower; but it was none the less steady. She was already within saker
      shot, and they could make out the figures stirring on her forecastle and
      the brass guns gleaming on her prow. The gunners of the Milagrosa raised
      their linstocks and blew upon their smouldering matches, looking up
      impatiently at the Admiral.
    </p>
    <p>
      But the Admiral solemnly shook his head.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Patience,&rdquo; he exhorted them. &ldquo;Save your fire until we have him. He is
      coming straight to his doom&mdash;straight to the yardarm and the rope
      that have been so long waiting for him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Stab me!&rdquo; said his lordship. &ldquo;This Englishman may be gallant enough to
      accept battle against such odds. But there are times when discretion is a
      better quality than gallantry in a commander.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Gallantry will often win through, even against overwhelming strength,&rdquo;
       said Miss Bishop. He looked at her, and noted in her bearing only
      excitement. Of fear he could still discern no trace. His lordship was past
      amazement. She was not by any means the kind of woman to which life had
      accustomed him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Presently,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;you will suffer me to place you under cover.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can see best from here,&rdquo; she answered him. And added quietly: &ldquo;I am
      praying for this Englishman. He must be very brave.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Under his breath Lord Julian damned the fellow&rsquo;s bravery.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Arabella was advancing now along a course which, if continued, must
      carry her straight between the two Spanish ships. My lord pointed it out.
      &ldquo;He&rsquo;s crazy surely!&rdquo; he cried. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s driving straight into a death-trap.
      He&rsquo;ll be crushed to splinters between the two. No wonder that black-faced
      Don is holding his fire. In his place, I should do the same.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But even at that moment the Admiral raised his hand; in the waist, below
      him, a trumpet blared, and immediately the gunner on the prow touched off
      his guns. As the thunder of them rolled out, his lordship saw ahead beyond
      the English ship and to larboard of her two heavy splashes. Almost at once
      two successive spurts of flame leapt from the brass cannon on the
      Arabella&rsquo;s beak-head, and scarcely had the watchers on the poop seen the
      shower of spray, where one of the shots struck the water near them, then
      with a rending crash and a shiver that shook the Milagrosa from stem to
      stern, the other came to lodge in her forecastle. To avenge that blow, the
      Hidalga blazed at the Englishman with both her forward guns. But even at
      that short range&mdash;between two and three hundred yards&mdash;neither
      shot took effect.
    </p>
    <p>
      At a hundred yards the Arabella&rsquo;s forward guns, which had meanwhile been
      reloaded, fired again at the Milagrosa, and this time smashed her bowsprit
      into splinters; so that for a moment she yawed wildly to port. Don Miguel
      swore profanely, and then, as the helm was put over to swing her back to
      her course, his own prow replied. But the aim was too high, and whilst one
      of the shots tore through the Arabella&rsquo;s shrouds and scarred her mainmast,
      the other again went wide. And when the smoke of that discharge had
      lifted, the English ship was found almost between the Spaniards, her bows
      in line with theirs and coming steadily on into what his lordship deemed a
      death-trap.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian held his breath, and Miss Bishop gasped, clutching the rail
      before her. She had a glimpse of the wickedly grinning face of Don Miguel,
      and the grinning faces of the men at the guns in the waist.
    </p>
    <p>
      At last the Arabella was right between the Spanish ships prow to poop and
      poop to prow. Don Miguel spoke to the trumpeter, who had mounted the
      quarter-deck and stood now at the Admiral&rsquo;s elbow. The man raised the
      silver bugle that was to give the signal for the broadsides of both ships.
      But even as he placed it to his lips, the Admiral seized his arm, to
      arrest him. Only then had he perceived what was so obvious&mdash;or should
      have been to an experienced sea-fighter: he had delayed too long and
      Captain Blood had outmanoeuvred him. In attempting to fire now upon the
      Englishman, the Milagrosa and her consort would also be firing into each
      other. Too late he ordered his helmsman to put the tiller hard over and
      swing the ship to larboard, as a preliminary to manoeuvring for a less
      impossible position of attack. At that very moment the Arabella seemed to
      explode as she swept by. Eighteen guns from each of her flanks emptied
      themselves at that point-blank range into the hulls of the two Spanish
      vessels.
    </p>
    <p>
      Half stunned by that reverberating thunder, and thrown off her balance by
      the sudden lurch of the ship under her feet, Miss Bishop hurtled violently
      against Lord Julian, who kept his feet only by clutching the rail on which
      he had been leaning. Billowing clouds of smoke to starboard blotted out
      everything, and its acrid odour, taking them presently in the throat, set
      them gasping and coughing.
    </p>
    <p>
      From the grim confusion and turmoil in the waist below arose a clamour of
      fierce Spanish blasphemies and the screams of maimed men. The Milagrosa
      staggered slowly ahead, a gaping rent in her bulwarks; her foremast was
      shattered, fragments of the yards hanging in the netting spread below. Her
      beak-head was in splinters, and a shot had smashed through into the great
      cabin, reducing it to wreckage.
    </p>
    <p>
      Don Miguel was bawling orders wildly, and peering ever and anon through
      the curtain of smoke that was drifting slowly astern, in his anxiety to
      ascertain how it might have fared with the Hidalga.
    </p>
    <p>
      Suddenly, and ghostly at first through that lifting haze, loomed the
      outline of a ship; gradually the lines of her red hull became more and
      more sharply defined as she swept nearer with poles all bare save for the
      spread of canvas on her sprit.
    </p>
    <p>
      Instead of holding to her course as Don Miguel had expected she would, the
      Arabella had gone about under cover of the smoke, and sailing now in the
      same direction as the Milagrosa, was converging sharply upon her across
      the wind, so sharply that almost before the frenzied Don Miguel had
      realized the situation, his vessel staggered under the rending impact with
      which the other came hurtling alongside. There was a rattle and clank of
      metal as a dozen grapnels fell, and tore and caught in the timbers of the
      Milagrosa, and the Spaniard was firmly gripped in the tentacles of the
      English ship.
    </p>
    <p>
      Beyond her and now well astern the veil of smoke was rent at last and the
      Hidalga was revealed in desperate case. She was bilging fast, with an
      ominous list to larboard, and it could be no more than a question of
      moments before she settled down. The attention of her hands was being
      entirely given to a desperate endeavour to launch the boats in time.
    </p>
    <p>
      Of this Don Miguel&rsquo;s anguished eyes had no more than a fleeting but
      comprehensive glimpse before his own decks were invaded by a wild, yelling
      swarm of boarders from the grappling ship. Never was confidence so quickly
      changed into despair, never was hunter more swiftly converted into
      helpless prey. For helpless the Spaniards were. The swiftly executed
      boarding manoeuvre had caught them almost unawares in the moment of
      confusion following the punishing broadside they had sustained at such
      short range. For a moment there was a valiant effort by some of Don
      Miguel&rsquo;s officers to rally the men for a stand against these invaders. But
      the Spaniards, never at their best in close-quarter fighting, were here
      demoralized by knowledge of the enemies with whom they had to deal. Their
      hastily formed ranks were smashed before they could be steadied; driven
      across the waist to the break of the poop on the one side, and up to the
      forecastle bulkheads on the other, the fighting resolved itself into a
      series of skirmishes between groups. And whilst this was doing above,
      another horde of buccaneers swarmed through the hatch to the main deck
      below to overpower the gun-crews at their stations there.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the quarter deck, towards which an overwhelming wave of buccaneers was
      sweeping, led by a one-eyed giant, who was naked to the waist, stood Don
      Miguel, numbed by despair and rage. Above and behind him on the poop, Lord
      Julian and Miss Bishop looked on, his lordship aghast at the fury of this
      cooped-up fighting, the lady&rsquo;s brave calm conquered at last by horror so
      that she reeled there sick and faint.
    </p>
    <p>
      Soon, however, the rage of that brief fight was spent. They saw the banner
      of Castile come fluttering down from the masthead. A buccaneer had slashed
      the halyard with his cutlass. The boarders were in possession, and on the
      upper deck groups of disarmed Spaniards stood huddled now like herded
      sheep.
    </p>
    <p>
      Suddenly Miss Bishop recovered from her nausea, to lean forward staring
      wild-eyed, whilst if possible her cheeks turned yet a deadlier hue than
      they had been already.
    </p>
    <p>
      Picking his way daintily through that shambles in the waist came a tall
      man with a deeply tanned face that was shaded by a Spanish headpiece. He
      was armed in back-and-breast of black steel beautifully damascened with
      golden arabesques. Over this, like a stole, he wore a sling of scarlet
      silk, from each end of which hung a silver-mounted pistol. Up the broad
      companion to the quarter-deck he came, toying with easy assurance, until
      he stood before the Spanish Admiral. Then he bowed stiff and formally. A
      crisp, metallic voice, speaking perfect Spanish, reached those two
      spectators on the poop, and increased the admiring wonder in which Lord
      Julian had observed the man&rsquo;s approach.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We meet again at last, Don Miguel,&rdquo; it said. &ldquo;I hope you are satisfied.
      Although the meeting may not be exactly as you pictured it, at least it
      has been very ardently sought and desired by you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Speechless, livid of face, his mouth distorted and his breathing laboured,
      Don Miguel de Espinosa received the irony of that man to whom he
      attributed his ruin and more beside. Then he uttered an inarticulate cry
      of rage, and his hand swept to his sword. But even as his fingers closed
      upon the hilt, the other&rsquo;s closed upon his wrist to arrest the action.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Calm, Don Miguel!&rdquo; he was quietly but firmly enjoined. &ldquo;Do not recklessly
      invite the ugly extremes such as you would, yourself, have practised had
      the situation been reversed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A moment they stood looking into each other&rsquo;s eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you intend by me?&rdquo; the Spaniard enquired at last, his voice
      hoarse.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood shrugged. The firm lips smiled a little. &ldquo;All that I intend
      has been already accomplished. And lest it increase your rancour, I beg
      you to observe that you have brought it entirely upon yourself. You would
      have it so.&rdquo; He turned and pointed to the boats, which his men were
      heaving from the boom amidships. &ldquo;Your boats are being launched. You are
      at liberty to embark in them with your men before we scuttle this ship.
      Yonder are the shores of Hispaniola. You should make them safely. And if
      you&rsquo;ll take my advice, sir, you&rsquo;ll not hunt me again. I think I am unlucky
      to you. Get you home to Spain, Don Miguel, and to concerns that you
      understand better than this trade of the sea.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For a long moment the defeated Admiral continued to stare his hatred in
      silence, then, still without speaking, he went down the companion,
      staggering like a drunken man, his useless rapier clattering behind him.
      His conqueror, who had not even troubled to disarm him, watched him go,
      then turned and faced those two immediately above him on the poop. Lord
      Julian might have observed, had he been less taken up with other things,
      that the fellow seemed suddenly to stiffen, and that he turned pale under
      his deep tan. A moment he stood at gaze; then suddenly and swiftly he came
      up the steps. Lord Julian stood forward to meet him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye don&rsquo;t mean, sir, that you&rsquo;ll let that Spanish scoundrel go free?&rdquo; he
      cried.
    </p>
    <p>
      The gentleman in the black corselet appeared to become aware of his
      lordship for the first time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And who the devil may you be?&rdquo; he asked, with a marked Irish accent. &ldquo;And
      what business may it be of yours, at all?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship conceived that the fellow&rsquo;s truculence and utter lack of
      proper deference must be corrected. &ldquo;I am Lord Julian Wade,&rdquo; he announced,
      with that object.
    </p>
    <p>
      Apparently the announcement made no impression.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you, indeed! Then perhaps ye&rsquo;ll explain what the plague you&rsquo;re doing
      aboard this ship?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian controlled himself to afford the desired explanation. He did
      so shortly and impatiently.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He took you prisoner, did he&mdash;along with Miss Bishop there?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are acquainted with Miss Bishop?&rdquo; cried his lordship, passing from
      surprise to surprise.
    </p>
    <p>
      But this mannerless fellow had stepped past him, and was making a leg to
      the lady, who on her side remained unresponsive and forbidding to the
      point of scorn. Observing this, he turned to answer Lord Julian&rsquo;s
      question.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I had that honour once,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;But it seems that Miss Bishop has a
      shorter memory.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lips were twisted into a wry smile, and there was pain in the blue
      eyes that gleamed so vividly under his black brows, pain blending with the
      mockery of his voice. But of all this it was the mockery alone that was
      perceived by Miss Bishop; she resented it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I do not number thieves and pirates among my acquaintance, Captain
      Blood,&rdquo; said she; whereupon his lordship exploded in excitement.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Captain Blood!&rdquo; he cried. &ldquo;Are you Captain Blood?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What else were ye supposing?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood asked the question wearily, his mind on other things. &ldquo;I do not
      number thieves and pirates among my acquaintance.&rdquo; The cruel phrase filled
      his brain, reechoing and reverberating there.
    </p>
    <p>
      But Lord Julian would not be denied. He caught him by the sleeve with one
      hand, whilst with the other he pointed after the retreating, dejected
      figure of Don Miguel.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do I understand that ye&rsquo;re not going to hang that Spanish scoundrel?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What for should I be hanging him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Because he&rsquo;s just a damned pirate, as I can prove, as I have proved
      already.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah!&rdquo; said Blood, and Lord Julian marvelled at the sudden haggardness of a
      countenance that had been so devil-may-care but a few moments since. &ldquo;I am
      a damned pirate, myself; and so I am merciful with my kind. Don Miguel
      goes free.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian gasped. &ldquo;After what I&rsquo;ve told you that he has done? After his
      sinking of the Royal Mary? After his treatment of me&mdash;of us?&rdquo; Lord
      Julian protested indignantly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am not in the service of England, or of any nation, sir. And I am not
      concerned with any wrongs her flag may suffer.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship recoiled before the furious glance that blazed at him out of
      Blood&rsquo;s haggard face. But the passion faded as swiftly as it had arisen.
      It was in a level voice that the Captain added:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you&rsquo;ll escort Miss Bishop aboard my ship, I shall be obliged to you. I
      beg that you&rsquo;ll make haste. We are about to scuttle this hulk.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He turned slowly to depart. But again Lord Julian interposed. Containing
      his indignant amazement, his lordship delivered himself coldly. &ldquo;Captain
      Blood, you disappoint me. I had hopes of great things for you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Go to the devil,&rdquo; said Captain Blood, turning on his heel, and so
      departed.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0020" id="link2HCH0020">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XX. THIEF AND PIRATE
    </h2>
    <p>
      Captain Blood paced the poop of his ship alone in the tepid dusk, and the
      growing golden radiance of the great poop lantern in which a seaman had
      just lighted the three lamps. About him all was peace. The signs of the
      day&rsquo;s battle had been effaced, the decks had been swabbed, and order was
      restored above and below. A group of men squatting about the main hatch
      were drowsily chanting, their hardened natures softened, perhaps, by the
      calm and beauty of the night. They were the men of the larboard watch,
      waiting for eight bells which was imminent.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood did not hear them; he did not hear anything save the echo of
      those cruel words which had dubbed him thief and pirate.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thief and pirate!
    </p>
    <p>
      It is an odd fact of human nature that a man may for years possess the
      knowledge that a certain thing must be of a certain fashion, and yet be
      shocked to discover through his own senses that the fact is in perfect
      harmony with his beliefs. When first, three years ago, at Tortuga he had
      been urged upon the adventurer&rsquo;s course which he had followed ever since,
      he had known in what opinion Arabella Bishop must hold him if he
      succumbed. Only the conviction that already she was for ever lost to him,
      by introducing a certain desperate recklessness into his soul had supplied
      the final impulse to drive him upon his rover&rsquo;s course.
    </p>
    <p>
      That he should ever meet her again had not entered his calculations, had
      found no place in his dreams. They were, he conceived, irrevocably and for
      ever parted. Yet, in spite of this, in spite even of the persuasion that
      to her this reflection that was his torment could bring no regrets, he had
      kept the thought of her ever before him in all those wild years of
      filibustering. He had used it as a curb not only upon himself, but also
      upon those who followed him. Never had buccaneers been so rigidly held in
      hand, never had they been so firmly restrained, never so debarred from the
      excesses of rapine and lust that were usual in their kind as those who
      sailed with Captain Blood. It was, you will remember, stipulated in their
      articles that in these as in other matters they must submit to the
      commands of their leader. And because of the singular good fortune which
      had attended his leadership, he had been able to impose that stern
      condition of a discipline unknown before among buccaneers. How would not
      these men laugh at him now if he were to tell them that this he had done
      out of respect for a slip of a girl of whom he had fallen romantically
      enamoured? How would not that laughter swell if he added that this girl
      had that day informed him that she did not number thieves and pirates
      among her acquaintance.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thief and pirate!
    </p>
    <p>
      How the words clung, how they stung and burnt his brain!
    </p>
    <p>
      It did not occur to him, being no psychologist, nor learned in the
      tortuous workings of the feminine mind, that the fact that she should
      bestow upon him those epithets in the very moment and circumstance of
      their meeting was in itself curious. He did not perceive the problem thus
      presented; therefore he could not probe it. Else he might have concluded
      that if in a moment in which by delivering her from captivity he deserved
      her gratitude, yet she expressed herself in bitterness, it must be because
      that bitterness was anterior to the gratitude and deep-seated. She had
      been moved to it by hearing of the course he had taken. Why? It was what
      he did not ask himself, or some ray of light might have come to brighten
      his dark, his utterly evil despondency. Surely she would never have been
      so moved had she not cared&mdash;had she not felt that in what he did
      there was a personal wrong to herself. Surely, he might have reasoned,
      nothing short of this could have moved her to such a degree of bitterness
      and scorn as that which she had displayed.
    </p>
    <p>
      That is how you will reason. Not so, however, reasoned Captain Blood.
      Indeed, that night he reasoned not at all. His soul was given up to
      conflict between the almost sacred love he had borne her in all these
      years and the evil passion which she had now awakened in him. Extremes
      touch, and in touching may for a space become confused, indistinguishable.
      And the extremes of love and hate were to-night so confused in the soul of
      Captain Blood that in their fusion they made up a monstrous passion.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thief and pirate!
    </p>
    <p>
      That was what she deemed him, without qualification, oblivious of the deep
      wrongs he had suffered, the desperate case in which he found himself after
      his escape from Barbados, and all the rest that had gone to make him what
      he was. That he should have conducted his filibustering with hands as
      clean as were possible to a man engaged in such undertakings had also not
      occurred to her as a charitable thought with which to mitigate her
      judgment of a man she had once esteemed. She had no charity for him, no
      mercy. She had summed him up, convicted him and sentenced him in that one
      phrase. He was thief and pirate in her eyes; nothing more, nothing less.
      What, then, was she? What are those who have no charity? he asked the
      stars.
    </p>
    <p>
      Well, as she had shaped him hitherto, so let her shape him now. Thief and
      pirate she had branded him. She should be justified. Thief and pirate
      should he prove henceforth; no more nor less; as bowelless, as
      remorseless, as all those others who had deserved those names. He would
      cast out the maudlin ideals by which he had sought to steer a course; put
      an end to this idiotic struggle to make the best of two worlds. She had
      shown him clearly to which world he belonged. Let him now justify her. She
      was aboard his ship, in his power, and he desired her.
    </p>
    <p>
      He laughed softly, jeeringly, as he leaned on the taffrail, looking down
      at the phosphorescent gleam in the ship&rsquo;s wake, and his own laughter
      startled him by its evil note. He checked suddenly, and shivered. A sob
      broke from him to end that ribald burst of mirth. He took his face in his
      hands and found a chill moisture on his brow.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meanwhile, Lord Julian, who knew the feminine part of humanity rather
      better than Captain Blood, was engaged in solving the curious problem that
      had so completely escaped the buccaneer. He was spurred to it, I suspect,
      by certain vague stirrings of jealousy. Miss Bishop&rsquo;s conduct in the
      perils through which they had come had brought him at last to perceive
      that a woman may lack the simpering graces of cultured femininity and yet
      because of that lack be the more admirable. He wondered what precisely
      might have been her earlier relations with Captain Blood, and was
      conscious of a certain uneasiness which urged him now to probe the matter.
    </p>
    <p>
      His lordship&rsquo;s pale, dreamy eyes had, as I have said, a habit of observing
      things, and his wits were tolerably acute.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was blaming himself now for not having observed certain things before,
      or, at least, for not having studied them more closely, and he was busily
      connecting them with more recent observations made that very day.
    </p>
    <p>
      He had observed, for instance, that Blood&rsquo;s ship was named the Arabella,
      and he knew that Arabella was Miss Bishop&rsquo;s name. And he had observed all
      the odd particulars of the meeting of Captain Blood and Miss Bishop, and
      the curious change that meeting had wrought in each.
    </p>
    <p>
      The lady had been monstrously uncivil to the Captain. It was a very
      foolish attitude for a lady in her circumstances to adopt towards a man in
      Blood&rsquo;s; and his lordship could not imagine Miss Bishop as normally
      foolish. Yet, in spite of her rudeness, in spite of the fact that she was
      the niece of a man whom Blood must regard as his enemy, Miss Bishop and
      his lordship had been shown the utmost consideration aboard the Captain&rsquo;s
      ship. A cabin had been placed at the disposal of each, to which their
      scanty remaining belongings and Miss Bishop&rsquo;s woman had been duly
      transferred. They were given the freedom of the great cabin, and they had
      sat down to table with Pitt, the master, and Wolverstone, who was Blood&rsquo;s
      lieutenant, both of whom had shown them the utmost courtesy. Also there
      was the fact that Blood, himself, had kept almost studiously from
      intruding upon them.
    </p>
    <p>
      His lordship&rsquo;s mind went swiftly but carefully down these avenues of
      thought, observing and connecting. Having exhausted them, he decided to
      seek additional information from Miss Bishop. For this he must wait until
      Pitt and Wolverstone should have withdrawn. He was hardly made to wait so
      long, for as Pitt rose from table to follow Wolverstone, who had already
      departed, Miss Bishop detained him with a question:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mr. Pitt,&rdquo; she asked, &ldquo;were you not one of those who escaped from
      Barbados with Captain Blood?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was. I, too, was one of your uncle&rsquo;s slaves.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And you have been with Captain Blood ever since?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;His shipmaster always, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She nodded. She was very calm and self-contained; but his lordship
      observed that she was unusually pale, though considering what she had that
      day undergone this afforded no matter for wonder.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you ever sail with a Frenchman named Cahusac?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Cahusac?&rdquo; Pitt laughed. The name evoked a ridiculous memory. &ldquo;Aye. He was
      with us at Maracaybo.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And another Frenchman named Levasseur?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship marvelled at her memory of these names.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye. Cahusac was Levasseur&rsquo;s lieutenant, until he died.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Until who died?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Levasseur. He was killed on one of the Virgin Islands two years ago.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was a pause. Then, in an even quieter voice than before, Miss Bishop
      asked:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who killed him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Pitt answered readily. There was no reason why he should not, though he
      began to find the catechism intriguing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Captain Blood killed him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Pitt hesitated. It was not a tale for a maid&rsquo;s ears.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They quarrelled,&rdquo; he said shortly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Was it about a... a lady?&rdquo; Miss Bishop relentlessly pursued him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You might put it that way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What was the lady&rsquo;s name?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Pitt&rsquo;s eyebrows went up; still he answered.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Miss d&rsquo;Ogeron. She was the daughter of the Governor of Tortuga. She had
      gone off with this fellow Levasseur, and... and Peter delivered her out of
      his dirty clutches. He was a black-hearted scoundrel, and deserved what
      Peter gave him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see. And... and yet Captain Blood has not married her?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not yet,&rdquo; laughed Pitt, who knew the utter groundlessness of the common
      gossip in Tortuga which pronounced Mdlle. d&rsquo;Ogeron the Captain&rsquo;s future
      wife.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Bishop nodded in silence, and Jeremy Pitt turned to depart, relieved
      that the catechism was ended. He paused in the doorway to impart a piece
      of information.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Maybe it&rsquo;ll comfort you to know that the Captain has altered our course
      for your benefit. It&rsquo;s his intention to put you both ashore on the coast
      of Jamaica, as near Port Royal as we dare venture. We&rsquo;ve gone about, and
      if this wind holds ye&rsquo;ll soon be home again, mistress.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Vastly obliging of him,&rdquo; drawled his lordship, seeing that Miss Bishop
      made no shift to answer. Sombre-eyed she sat, staring into vacancy.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Indeed, ye may say so,&rdquo; Pitt agreed. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s taking risks that few would
      take in his place. But that&rsquo;s always been his way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He went out, leaving his lordship pensive, those dreamy blue eyes of his
      intently studying Miss Bishop&rsquo;s face for all their dreaminess; his mind
      increasingly uneasy. At length Miss Bishop looked at him, and spoke.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your Cahusac told you no more than the truth, it seems.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I perceived that you were testing it,&rdquo; said his lordship. &ldquo;I am wondering
      precisely why.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Receiving no answer, he continued to observe her silently, his long,
      tapering fingers toying with a ringlet of the golden periwig in which his
      long face was set.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Bishop sat bemused, her brows knit, her brooding glance seeming to
      study the fine Spanish point that edged the tablecloth. At last his
      lordship broke the silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He amazes me, this man,&rdquo; said he, in his slow, languid voice that never
      seemed to change its level. &ldquo;That he should alter his course for us is in
      itself matter for wonder; but that he should take a risk on our behalf&mdash;that
      he should venture into Jamaica waters.... It amazes me, as I have said.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Bishop raised her eyes, and looked at him. She appeared to be very
      thoughtful. Then her lip flickered curiously, almost scornfully, it seemed
      to him. Her slender fingers drummed the table.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is still more amazing is that he does not hold us to ransom,&rdquo; said
      she at last.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s what you deserve.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, and why, if you please?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For speaking to him as you did.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I usually call things by their names.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you? Stab me! I shouldn&rsquo;t boast of it. It argues either extreme youth
      or extreme foolishness.&rdquo; His lordship, you see, belonged to my Lord
      Sunderland&rsquo;s school of philosophy. He added after a moment: &ldquo;So does the
      display of ingratitude.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A faint colour stirred in her cheeks. &ldquo;Your lordship is evidently
      aggrieved with me. I am disconsolate. I hope your lordship&rsquo;s grievance is
      sounder than your views of life. It is news to me that ingratitude is a
      fault only to be found in the young and the foolish.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t say so, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo; There was a tartness in his tone evoked by the
      tartness she had used. &ldquo;If you would do me the honour to listen, you would
      not misapprehend me. For if unlike you I do not always say precisely what
      I think, at least I say precisely what I wish to convey. To be ungrateful
      may be human; but to display it is childish.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I... I don&rsquo;t think I understand.&rdquo; Her brows were knit. &ldquo;How have I been
      ungrateful and to whom?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To whom? To Captain Blood. Didn&rsquo;t he come to our rescue?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did he?&rdquo; Her manner was frigid. &ldquo;I wasn&rsquo;t aware that he knew of our
      presence aboard the Milagrosa.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship permitted himself the slightest gesture of impatience.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are probably aware that he delivered us,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;And living as you
      have done in these savage places of the world, you can hardly fail to be
      aware of what is known even in England: that this fellow Blood strictly
      confines himself to making war upon the Spaniards. So that to call him
      thief and pirate as you did was to overstate the case against him at a
      time when it would have been more prudent to have understated it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Prudence?&rdquo; Her voice was scornful. &ldquo;What have I to do with prudence?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing&mdash;as I perceive. But, at least, study generosity. I tell you
      frankly, ma&rsquo;am, that in Blood&rsquo;s place I should never have been so nice.
      Sink me! When you consider what he has suffered at the hands of his
      fellow-countrymen, you may marvel with me that he should trouble to
      discriminate between Spanish and English. To be sold into slavery! Ugh!&rdquo;
       His lordship shuddered. &ldquo;And to a damned colonial planter!&rdquo; He checked
      abruptly. &ldquo;I beg your pardon, Miss Bishop. For the moment....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You were carried away by your heat in defence of this... sea-robber.&rdquo;
       Miss Bishop&rsquo;s scorn was almost fierce.
    </p>
    <p>
      His lordship stared at her again. Then he half-closed his large, pale
      eyes, and tilted his head a little. &ldquo;I wonder why you hate him so,&rdquo; he
      said softly.
    </p>
    <p>
      He saw the sudden scarlet flame upon her cheeks, the heavy frown that
      descended upon her brow. He had made her very angry, he judged. But there
      was no explosion. She recovered.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hate him? Lord! What a thought! I don&rsquo;t regard the fellow at all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then ye should, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo; His lordship spoke his thought frankly. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s
      worth regarding. He&rsquo;d be an acquisition to the King&rsquo;s navy&mdash;a man
      that can do the things he did this morning. His service under de Ruyter
      wasn&rsquo;t wasted on him. That was a great seaman, and&mdash;blister me!&mdash;the
      pupil&rsquo;s worthy the master if I am a judge of anything. I doubt if the
      Royal Navy can show his equal. To thrust himself deliberately between
      those two, at point-blank range, and so turn the tables on them! It asks
      courage, resource, and invention. And we land-lubbers were not the only
      ones he tricked by his manoeuvre. That Spanish Admiral never guessed the
      intent until it was too late and Blood held him in check. A great man,
      Miss Bishop. A man worth regarding.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Bishop was moved to sarcasm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You should use your influence with my Lord Sunderland to have the King
      offer him a commission.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship laughed softly. &ldquo;Faith, it&rsquo;s done already. I have his
      commission in my pocket.&rdquo; And he increased her amazement by a brief
      exposition of the circumstances. In that amazement he left her, and went
      in quest of Blood. But he was still intrigued. If she were a little less
      uncompromising in her attitude towards Blood, his lordship would have been
      happier.
    </p>
    <p>
      He found the Captain pacing the quarter-deck, a man mentally exhausted
      from wrestling with the Devil, although of this particular occupation his
      lordship could have no possible suspicion. With the amiable familiarity he
      used, Lord Julian slipped an arm through one of the Captain&rsquo;s, and fell
      into step beside him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What&rsquo;s this?&rdquo; snapped Blood, whose mood was fierce and raw. His lordship
      was not disturbed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I desire, sir, that we be friends,&rdquo; said he suavely.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s mighty condescending of you!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian ignored the obvious sarcasm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s an odd coincidence that we should have been brought together in this
      fashion, considering that I came out to the Indies especially to seek
      you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;re not by any means the first to do that,&rdquo; the other scoffed. &ldquo;But
      they&rsquo;ve mainly been Spaniards, and they hadn&rsquo;t your luck.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You misapprehend me completely,&rdquo; said Lord Julian. And on that he
      proceeded to explain himself and his mission.
    </p>
    <p>
      When he had done, Captain Blood, who until that moment had stood still
      under the spell of his astonishment, disengaged his arm from his
      lordship&rsquo;s, and stood squarely before him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;re my guest aboard this ship,&rdquo; said he, &ldquo;and I still have some notion
      of decent behaviour left me from other days, thief and pirate though I may
      be. So I&rsquo;ll not be telling you what I think of you for daring to bring me
      this offer, or of my Lord Sunderland&mdash;since he&rsquo;s your kinsman for
      having the impudence to send it. But it does not surprise me at all that
      one who is a minister of James Stuart&rsquo;s should conceive that every man is
      to be seduced by bribes into betraying those who trust him.&rdquo; He flung out
      an arm in the direction of the waist, whence came the half-melancholy
      chant of the lounging buccaneers.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Again you misapprehend me,&rdquo; cried Lord Julian, between concern and
      indignation. &ldquo;That is not intended. Your followers will be included in
      your commission.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And d&rsquo; ye think they&rsquo;ll go with me to hunt their brethren&mdash;the
      Brethren of the Coast? On my soul, Lord Julian, it is yourself does the
      misapprehending. Are there not even notions of honour left in England? Oh,
      and there&rsquo;s more to it than that, even. D&rsquo;ye think I could take a
      commission of King James&rsquo;s? I tell you I wouldn&rsquo;t be soiling my hands with
      it&mdash;thief and pirate&rsquo;s hands though they be. Thief and pirate is what
      you heard Miss Bishop call me to-day&mdash;a thing of scorn, an outcast.
      And who made me that? Who made me thief and pirate?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you were a rebel...?&rdquo; his lordship was beginning.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye must know that I was no such thing&mdash;no rebel at all. It wasn&rsquo;t
      even pretended. If it were, I could forgive them. But not even that cloak
      could they cast upon their foulness. Oh, no; there was no mistake. I was
      convicted for what I did, neither more nor less. That bloody vampire
      Jeffreys&mdash;bad cess to him!&mdash;sentenced me to death, and his
      worthy master James Stuart afterwards sent me into slavery, because I had
      performed an act of mercy; because compassionately and without thought for
      creed or politics I had sought to relieve the sufferings of a
      fellow-creature; because I had dressed the wounds of a man who was
      convicted of treason. That was all my offence. You&rsquo;ll find it in the
      records. And for that I was sold into slavery: because by the law of
      England, as administered by James Stuart in violation of the laws of God,
      who harbours or comforts a rebel is himself adjudged guilty of rebellion.
      D&rsquo;ye dream man, what it is to be a slave?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He checked suddenly at the very height of his passion. A moment he paused,
      then cast it from him as if it had been a cloak. His voice sank again. He
      uttered a little laugh of weariness and contempt.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But there! I grow hot for nothing at all. I explain myself, I think, and
      God knows, it is not my custom. I am grateful to you, Lord Julian, for
      your kindly intentions. I am so. But ye&rsquo;ll understand, perhaps. Ye look as
      if ye might.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian stood still. He was deeply stricken by the other&rsquo;s words, the
      passionate, eloquent outburst that in a few sharp, clear-cut strokes had
      so convincingly presented the man&rsquo;s bitter case against humanity, his
      complete apologia and justification for all that could be laid to his
      charge. His lordship looked at that keen, intrepid face gleaming lividly
      in the light of the great poop lantern, and his own eyes were troubled. He
      was abashed.
    </p>
    <p>
      He fetched a heavy sigh. &ldquo;A pity,&rdquo; he said slowly. &ldquo;Oh, blister me&mdash;a
      cursed pity!&rdquo; He held out his hand, moved to it on a sudden generous
      impulse. &ldquo;But no offence between us, Captain Blood!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, no offence. But... I&rsquo;m a thief and a pirate.&rdquo; He laughed without
      mirth, and, disregarding the proffered hand, swung on his heel.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian stood a moment, watching the tall figure as it moved away
      towards the taffrail. Then letting his arms fall helplessly to his sides
      in dejection, he departed.
    </p>
    <p>
      Just within the doorway of the alley leading to the cabin, he ran into
      Miss Bishop. Yet she had not been coming out, for her back was towards
      him, and she was moving in the same direction. He followed her, his mind
      too full of Captain Blood to be concerned just then with her movements.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the cabin he flung into a chair, and exploded, with a violence
      altogether foreign to his nature.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Damme if ever I met a man I liked better, or even a man I liked as well.
      Yet there&rsquo;s nothing to be done with him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So I heard,&rdquo; she admitted in a small voice. She was very white, and she
      kept her eyes upon her folded hands.
    </p>
    <p>
      He looked up in surprise, and then sat conning her with brooding glance.
      &ldquo;I wonder, now,&rdquo; he said presently, &ldquo;if the mischief is of your working.
      Your words have rankled with him. He threw them at me again and again. He
      wouldn&rsquo;t take the King&rsquo;s commission; he wouldn&rsquo;t take my hand even. What&rsquo;s
      to be done with a fellow like that? He&rsquo;ll end on a yardarm for all his
      luck. And the quixotic fool is running into danger at the present moment
      on our behalf.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How?&rdquo; she asked him with a sudden startled interest.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How? Have you forgotten that he&rsquo;s sailing to Jamaica, and that Jamaica is
      the headquarters of the English fleet? True, your uncle commands it....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She leaned across the table to interrupt him, and he observed that her
      breathing had grown labored, that her eyes were dilating in alarm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But there is no hope for him in that!&rdquo; she cried. &ldquo;Oh, don&rsquo;t imagine it!
      He has no bitterer enemy in the world! My uncle is a hard, unforgiving
      man. I believe that it was nothing but the hope of taking and hanging
      Captain Blood that made my uncle leave his Barbados plantations to accept
      the deputy-governorship of Jamaica. Captain Blood doesn&rsquo;t know that, of
      course....&rdquo; She paused with a little gesture of helplessness.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t think that it would make the least difference if he did,&rdquo; said
      his lordship gravely. &ldquo;A man who can forgive such an enemy as Don Miguel
      and take up this uncompromising attitude with me isn&rsquo;t to be judged by
      ordinary rules. He&rsquo;s chivalrous to the point of idiocy.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And yet he has been what he has been and done what he has done in these
      last three years,&rdquo; said she, but she said it sorrowfully now, without any
      of her earlier scorn.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian was sententious, as I gather that he often was. &ldquo;Life can be
      infernally complex,&rdquo; he sighed.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0021" id="link2HCH0021">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XXI. THE SERVICE OF KING JAMES
    </h2>
    <p>
      Miss Arabella Bishop was aroused very early on the following morning by
      the brazen voice of a bugle and the insistent clanging of a bell in the
      ship&rsquo;s belfry. As she lay awake, idly watching the rippled green water
      that appeared to be streaming past the heavily glazed porthole, she became
      gradually aware of the sounds of swift, laboured bustle&mdash;the clatter
      of many feet, the shouts of hoarse voices, and the persistent trundlings
      of heavy bodies in the ward-room immediately below the deck of the cabin.
      Conceiving these sounds to portend a more than normal activity, she sat
      up, pervaded by a vague alarm, and roused her still slumbering woman.
    </p>
    <p>
      In his cabin on the starboard side Lord Julian, disturbed by the same
      sounds, was already astir and hurriedly dressing. When presently he
      emerged under the break of the poop, he found himself staring up into a
      mountain of canvas. Every foot of sail that she could carry had been
      crowded to the Arabella&rsquo;s yards, to catch the morning breeze. Ahead and on
      either side stretched the limitless expanse of ocean, sparkling golden in
      the sun, as yet no more than a half-disc of flame upon the horizon
      straight ahead.
    </p>
    <p>
      About him in the waist, where all last night had been so peaceful, there
      was a frenziedly active bustle of some threescore men. By the rail,
      immediately above and behind Lord Julian, stood Captain Blood in
      altercation with a one-eyed giant, whose head was swathed in a red cotton
      kerchief, whose blue shirt hung open at the waist. As his lordship, moving
      forward, revealed himself, their voices ceased, and Blood turned to greet
      him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-morning to you,&rdquo; he said, and added &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve blundered badly, so I
      have. I should have known better than to come so close to Jamaica by
      night. But I was in haste to land you. Come up here. I have something to
      show you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Wondering, Lord Julian mounted the companion as he was bidden. Standing
      beside Captain Blood, he looked astern, following the indication of the
      Captain&rsquo;s hand, and cried out in his amazement. There, not more than three
      miles away, was land&mdash;an uneven wall of vivid green that filled the
      western horizon. And a couple of miles this side of it, bearing after
      them, came speeding three great white ships.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They fly no colours, but they&rsquo;re part of the Jamaica fleet.&rdquo; Blood spoke
      without excitement, almost with a certain listlessness. &ldquo;When dawn broke
      we found ourselves running to meet them. We went about, and it&rsquo;s been a
      race ever since. But the Arabella &lsquo;s been at sea these four months, and
      her bottom&rsquo;s too foul for the speed we&rsquo;re needing.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Wolverstone hooked his thumbs into his broad leather belt, and from his
      great height looked down sardonically upon Lord Julian, tall man though
      his lordship was. &ldquo;So that you&rsquo;re like to be in yet another sea-fight
      afore ye&rsquo;ve done wi&rsquo; ships, my lord.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s a point we were just arguing,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;For I hold that we&rsquo;re
      in no case to fight against such odds.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The odds be damned!&rdquo; Wolverstone thrust out his heavy jowl. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re used
      to odds. The odds was heavier at Maracaybo; yet we won out, and took three
      ships. They was heavier yesterday when we engaged Don Miguel.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye&mdash;but those were Spaniards.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And what better are these?&mdash;Are ye afeard of a lubberly Barbados
      planter? Whatever ails you, Peter? I&rsquo;ve never known ye scared afore.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A gun boomed out behind them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;ll be the signal to lie to,&rdquo; said Blood, in the same listless voice;
      and he fetched a sigh.
    </p>
    <p>
      Wolverstone squared himself defiantly before his captain
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll see Colonel Bishop in hell or ever I lies to for him.&rdquo; And he spat,
      presumably for purposes of emphasis.
    </p>
    <p>
      His lordship intervened.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, but&mdash;by your leave&mdash;surely there is nothing to be
      apprehended from Colonel Bishop. Considering the service you have rendered
      to his niece and to me....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Wolverstone&rsquo;s horse-laugh interrupted him. &ldquo;Hark to the gentleman!&rdquo; he
      mocked. &ldquo;Ye don&rsquo;t know Colonel Bishop, that&rsquo;s clear. Not for his niece,
      not for his daughter, not for his own mother, would he forgo the blood
      what he thinks due to him. A drinker of blood, he is. A nasty beast. We
      knows, the Cap&rsquo;n and me. We been his slaves.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But there is myself,&rdquo; said Lord Julian, with great dignity.
    </p>
    <p>
      Wolverstone laughed again, whereat his lordship flushed. He was moved to
      raise his voice above its usual languid level.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I assure you that my word counts for something in England.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, aye&mdash;in England. But this ain&rsquo;t England, damme.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Came the roar of a second gun, and a round shot splashed the water less
      than half a cable&rsquo;s-length astern. Blood leaned over the rail to speak to
      the fair young man immediately below him by the helmsman at the whipstaff.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Bid them take in sail, Jeremy,&rdquo; he said quietly. &ldquo;We lie to.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But Wolverstone interposed again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hold there a moment, Jeremy!&rdquo; he roared. &ldquo;Wait!&rdquo; He swung back to face
      the Captain, who had placed a hand on is shoulder and was smiling, a
      trifle wistfully.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Steady, Old Wolf! Steady!&rdquo; Captain Blood admonished him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Steady, yourself, Peter. Ye&rsquo;ve gone mad! Will ye doom us all to hell out
      of tenderness for that cold slip of a girl?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Stop!&rdquo; cried Blood in sudden fury.
    </p>
    <p>
      But Wolverstone would not stop. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s the truth, you fool. It&rsquo;s that
      cursed petticoat&rsquo;s making a coward of you. It&rsquo;s for her that ye&rsquo;re afeard&mdash;and
      she, Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s niece! My God, man, ye&rsquo;ll have a mutiny aboard, and
      I&rsquo;ll lead it myself sooner than surrender to be hanged in Port Royal.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Their glances met, sullen defiance braving dull anger, surprise, and pain.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is no question,&rdquo; said Blood, &ldquo;of surrender for any man aboard save
      only myself. If Bishop can report to England that I am taken and hanged,
      he will magnify himself and at the same time gratify his personal rancour
      against me. That should satisfy him. I&rsquo;ll send him a message offering to
      surrender aboard his ship, taking Miss Bishop and Lord Julian with me, but
      only on condition that the Arabella is allowed to proceed unharmed. It&rsquo;s a
      bargain that he&rsquo;ll accept, if I know him at all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a bargain he&rsquo;ll never be offered,&rdquo; retorted Wolverstone, and his
      earlier vehemence was as nothing to his vehemence now. &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;re surely daft
      even to think of it, Peter!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not so daft as you when you talk of fighting that.&rdquo; He flung out an arm
      as he spoke to indicate the pursuing ships, which were slowly but surely
      creeping nearer. &ldquo;Before we&rsquo;ve run another half-mile we shall be within
      range.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Wolverstone swore elaborately, then suddenly checked. Out of the tail of
      his single eye he had espied a trim figure in grey silk that was ascending
      the companion. So engrossed had they been that they had not seen Miss
      Bishop come from the door of the passage leading to the cabin. And there
      was something else that those three men on the poop, and Pitt immediately
      below them, had failed to observe. Some moments ago Ogle, followed by the
      main body of his gun-deck crew, had emerged from the booby hatch, to fall
      into muttered, angrily vehement talk with those who, abandoning the
      gun-tackles upon which they were labouring, had come to crowd about him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Even now Blood had no eyes for that. He turned to look at Miss Bishop,
      marvelling a little, after the manner in which yesterday she had avoided
      him, that she should now venture upon the quarter-deck. Her presence at
      this moment, and considering the nature of his altercation with
      Wolverstone, was embarrassing.
    </p>
    <p>
      Very sweet and dainty she stood before him in her gown of shimmering grey,
      a faint excitement tinting her fair cheeks and sparkling in her clear,
      hazel eyes, that looked so frank and honest. She wore no hat, and the
      ringlets of her gold-brown hair fluttered distractingly in the morning
      breeze.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood bared his head and bowed silently in a greeting which she
      returned composedly and formally.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is happening, Lord Julian?&rdquo; she enquired.
    </p>
    <p>
      As if to answer her a third gun spoke from the ships towards which she was
      looking intent and wonderingly. A frown rumpled her brow. She looked from
      one to the other of the men who stood there so glum and obviously ill at
      ease.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They are ships of the Jamaica fleet,&rdquo; his lordship answered her.
    </p>
    <p>
      It should in any case have been a sufficient explanation. But before more
      could be added, their attention was drawn at last to Ogle, who came
      bounding up the broad ladder, and to the men lounging aft in his wake, in
      all of which, instinctively, they apprehended a vague menace.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the head of the companion, Ogle found his progress barred by Blood, who
      confronted him, a sudden sternness in his face and in every line of him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What&rsquo;s this?&rdquo; the Captain demanded sharply. &ldquo;Your station is on the
      gun-deck. Why have you left it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Thus challenged, the obvious truculence faded out of Ogle&rsquo;s bearing,
      quenched by the old habit of obedience and the natural dominance that was
      the secret of the Captain&rsquo;s rule over his wild followers. But it gave no
      pause to the gunner&rsquo;s intention. If anything it increased his excitement.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Captain,&rdquo; he said, and as he spoke he pointed to the pursuing ships,
      &ldquo;Colonel Bishop holds us. We&rsquo;re in no case either to run or fight.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood&rsquo;s height seemed to increase, as did his sternness.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ogle,&rdquo; said he, in a voice cold and sharp as steel, &ldquo;your station is on
      the gun-deck. You&rsquo;ll return to it at once, and take your crew with you, or
      else....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But Ogle, violent of mien and gesture, interrupted him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Threats will not serve, Captain.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will they not?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was the first time in his buccaneering career that an order of his had
      been disregarded, or that a man had failed in the obedience to which he
      pledged all those who joined him. That this insubordination should proceed
      from one of those whom he most trusted, one of his old Barbados
      associates, was in itself a bitterness, and made him reluctant to that
      which instinct told him must be done. His hand closed over the butt of one
      of the pistols slung before him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nor will that serve you,&rdquo; Ogle warned him, still more fiercely. &ldquo;The men
      are of my thinking, and they&rsquo;ll have their way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And what way may that be?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The way to make us safe. We&rsquo;ll neither sink nor hang whiles we can help
      it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      From the three or four score men massed below in the waist came a rumble
      of approval. Captain Blood&rsquo;s glance raked the ranks of those resolute,
      fierce-eyed fellows, then it came to rest again on Ogle. There was here
      quite plainly a vague threat, a mutinous spirit he could not understand.
      &ldquo;You come to give advice, then, do you?&rdquo; quoth he, relenting nothing of
      his sternness.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s it, Captain; advice. That girl, there.&rdquo; He flung out a bare arm to
      point to her. &ldquo;Bishop&rsquo;s girl; the Governor of Jamaica&rsquo;s niece.... We want
      her as a hostage for our safety.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye!&rdquo; roared in chorus the buccaneers below, and one or two of them
      elaborated that affirmation.
    </p>
    <p>
      In a flash Captain Blood saw what was in their minds. And for all that he
      lost nothing of his outward stern composure, fear invaded his heart.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And how,&rdquo; he asked, &ldquo;do you imagine that Miss Bishop will prove such a
      hostage?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a providence having her aboard; a providence. Heave to, Captain, and
      signal them to send a boat, and assure themselves that Miss is here. Then
      let them know that if they attempt to hinder our sailing hence, we&rsquo;ll hang
      the doxy first and fight for it after. That&rsquo;ll cool Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s heat,
      maybe.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And maybe it won&rsquo;t.&rdquo; Slow and mocking came Wolverstone&rsquo;s voice to answer
      the other&rsquo;s confident excitement, and as he spoke he advanced to Blood&rsquo;s
      side, an unexpected ally. &ldquo;Some o&rsquo; them dawcocks may believe that tale.&rdquo;
       He jerked a contemptuous thumb towards the men in the waist, whose ranks
      were steadily being increased by the advent of others from the forecastle.
      &ldquo;Although even some o&rsquo; they should know better, for there&rsquo;s still a few
      was on Barbados with us, and are acquainted like me and you with Colonel
      Bishop. If ye&rsquo;re counting on pulling Bishop&rsquo;s heartstrings, ye&rsquo;re a bigger
      fool, Ogle, than I&rsquo;ve always thought you was with anything but guns.
      There&rsquo;s no heaving to for such a matter as that unless you wants to make
      quite sure of our being sunk. Though we had a cargo of Bishop&rsquo;s nieces it
      wouldn&rsquo;t make him hold his hand. Why, as I was just telling his lordship
      here, who thought like you that having Miss Bishop aboard would make us
      safe, not for his mother would that filthy slaver forgo what&rsquo;s due to him.
      And if ye&rsquo; weren&rsquo;t a fool, Ogle, you wouldn&rsquo;t need me to tell you this.
      We&rsquo;ve got to fight, my lads....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How can we fight, man?&rdquo; Ogle stormed at him, furiously battling the
      conviction which Wolverstone&rsquo;s argument was imposing upon his listeners.
      &ldquo;You may be right, and you may be wrong. We&rsquo;ve got to chance it. It&rsquo;s our
      only chance....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The rest of his words were drowned in the shouts of the hands insisting
      that the girl be given up to be held as a hostage. And then louder than
      before roared a gun away to leeward, and away on their starboard beam they
      saw the spray flung up by the shot, which had gone wide.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They are within range,&rdquo; cried Ogle. And leaning from the rail, &ldquo;Put down
      the helm,&rdquo; he commanded.
    </p>
    <p>
      Pitt, at his post beside the helmsman, turned intrepidly to face the
      excited gunner.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Since when have you commanded on the main deck, Ogle? I take my orders
      from the Captain.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll take this order from me, or, by God, you&rsquo;ll....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait!&rdquo; Blood bade him, interrupting, and he set a restraining hand upon
      the gunner&rsquo;s arm. &ldquo;There is, I think, a better way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He looked over his shoulder, aft, at the advancing ships, the foremost of
      which was now a bare quarter of a mile away. His glance swept in passing
      over Miss Bishop and Lord Julian standing side by side some paces behind
      him. He observed her pale and tense, with parted lips and startled eyes
      that were fixed upon him, an anxious witness of this deciding of her fate.
      He was thinking swiftly, reckoning the chances if by pistolling Ogle he
      were to provoke a mutiny. That some of the men would rally to him, he was
      sure. But he was no less sure that the main body would oppose him, and
      prevail in spite of all that he could do, taking the chance that holding
      Miss Bishop to ransom seemed to afford them. And if they did that, one way
      or the other, Miss Bishop would be lost. For even if Bishop yielded to
      their demand, they would retain her as a hostage.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meanwhile Ogle was growing impatient. His arm still gripped by Blood, he
      thrust his face into the Captain&rsquo;s.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What better way?&rdquo; he demanded. &ldquo;There is none better. I&rsquo;ll not be bubbled
      by what Wolverstone has said. He may be right, and he may be wrong. We&rsquo;ll
      test it. It&rsquo;s our only chance, I&rsquo;ve said, and we must take it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The better way that was in Captain Blood&rsquo;s mind was the way that already
      he had proposed to Wolverstone. Whether the men in the panic Ogle had
      aroused among them would take a different view from Wolverstone&rsquo;s he did
      not know. But he saw quite clearly now that if they consented, they would
      not on that account depart from their intention in the matter of Miss
      Bishop; they would make of Blood&rsquo;s own surrender merely an additional card
      in this game against the Governor of Jamaica.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s through her that we&rsquo;re in this trap,&rdquo; Ogle stormed on. &ldquo;Through her
      and through you. It was to bring her to Jamaica that you risked all our
      lives, and we&rsquo;re not going to lose our lives as long as there&rsquo;s a chance
      to make ourselves safe through her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was turning again to the helmsman below, when Blood&rsquo;s grip tightened on
      his arm. Ogle wrenched it free, with an oath. But Blood&rsquo;s mind was now
      made up. He had found the only way, and repellent though it might be to
      him, he must take it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is a desperate chance,&rdquo; he cried. &ldquo;Mine is the safe and easy way.
      Wait!&rdquo; He leaned over the rail. &ldquo;Put the helm down,&rdquo; he bade Pitt. &ldquo;Heave
      her to, and signal to them to send a boat.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A silence of astonishment fell upon the ship&mdash;of astonishment and
      suspicion at this sudden yielding. But Pitt, although he shared it, was
      prompt to obey. His voice rang out, giving the necessary orders, and after
      an instant&rsquo;s pause, a score of hands sprang to execute them. Came the
      creak of blocks and the rattle of slatting sails as they swung aweather,
      and Captain Blood turned and beckoned Lord Julian forward. His lordship,
      after a moment&rsquo;s hesitation, advanced in surprise and mistrust&mdash;a
      mistrust shared by Miss Bishop, who, like his lordship and all else
      aboard, though in a different way, had been taken aback by Blood&rsquo;s sudden
      submission to the demand to lie to.
    </p>
    <p>
      Standing now at the rail, with Lord Julian beside him, Captain Blood
      explained himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      Briefly and clearly he announced to all the object of Lord Julian&rsquo;s voyage
      to the Caribbean, and he informed them of the offer which yesterday Lord
      Julian had made to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That offer I rejected, as his lordship will tell you, deeming myself
      affronted by it. Those of you who have suffered under the rule of King
      James will understand me. But now in the desperate case in which we find
      ourselves&mdash;outsailed, and likely to be outfought, as Ogle has said&mdash;I
      am ready to take the way of Morgan: to accept the King&rsquo;s commission and
      shelter us all behind it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was a thunderbolt that for a moment left them all dazed. Then Babel was
      reenacted. The main body of them welcomed the announcement as only men who
      have been preparing to die can welcome a new lease of life. But many could
      not resolve one way or the other until they were satisfied upon several
      questions, and chiefly upon one which was voiced by Ogle.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will Bishop respect the commission when you hold it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was Lord Julian who answered:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It will go very hard with him if he attempts to flout the King&rsquo;s
      authority. And though he should dare attempt it, be sure that his own
      officers will not dare to do other than oppose him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye,&rdquo; said Ogle, &ldquo;that is true.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But there were some who were still in open and frank revolt against the
      course. Of these was Wolverstone, who at once proclaimed his hostility.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll rot in hell or ever I serves the King,&rdquo; he bawled in a great rage.
    </p>
    <p>
      But Blood quieted him and those who thought as he did.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No man need follow me into the King&rsquo;s service who is reluctant. That is
      not in the bargain. What is in the bargain is that I accept this service
      with such of you as may choose to follow me. Don&rsquo;t think I accept it
      willingly. For myself, I am entirely of Wolverstone&rsquo;s opinion. I accept it
      as the only way to save us all from the certain destruction into which my
      own act may have brought us. And even those of you who do not choose to
      follow me shall share the immunity of all, and shall afterwards be free to
      depart. Those are the terms upon which I sell myself to the King. Let Lord
      Julian, the representative of the Secretary of State, say whether he
      agrees to them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Prompt, eager, and clear came his lordship&rsquo;s agreement. And that was
      practically the end of the matter. Lord Julian, the butt now of
      good-humouredly ribald jests and half-derisive acclamations, plunged away
      to his cabin for the commission, secretly rejoicing at a turn of events
      which enabled him so creditably to discharge the business on which he had
      been sent.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meanwhile the bo&rsquo;sun signalled to the Jamaica ships to send a boat, and
      the men in the waist broke their ranks and went noisily flocking to line
      the bulwarks and view the great stately vessels that were racing down
      towards them.
    </p>
    <p>
      As Ogle left the quarter-deck, Blood turned, and came face to face with
      Miss Bishop. She had been observing him with shining eyes, but at sight of
      his dejected countenance, and the deep frown that scarred his brow, her
      own expression changed. She approached him with a hesitation entirely
      unusual to her. She set a hand lightly upon his arm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have chosen wisely, sir,&rdquo; she commended him, &ldquo;however much against
      your inclinations.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He looked with gloomy eyes upon her for whom he had made this sacrifice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I owed it to you&mdash;or thought I did,&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      She did not understand. &ldquo;Your resolve delivered me from a horrible
      danger,&rdquo; she admitted. And she shivered at the memory of it. &ldquo;But I do not
      understand why you should have hesitated when first it was proposed to
      you. It is an honourable service.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;King James&rsquo;s?&rdquo; he sneered.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;England&rsquo;s,&rdquo; she corrected him in reproof. &ldquo;The country is all, sir; the
      sovereign naught. King James will pass; others will come and pass; England
      remains, to be honourably served by her sons, whatever rancour they may
      hold against the man who rules her in their time.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He showed some surprise. Then he smiled a little. &ldquo;Shrewd advocacy,&rdquo; he
      approved it. &ldquo;You should have spoken to the crew.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And then, the note of irony deepening in his voice: &ldquo;Do you suppose now
      that this honourable service might redeem one who was a pirate and a
      thief?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her glance fell away. Her voice faltered a little in replying. &ldquo;If he...
      needs redeeming. Perhaps... perhaps he has been judged too harshly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The blue eyes flashed, and the firm lips relaxed their grim set.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why... if ye think that,&rdquo; he said, considering her, an odd hunger in his
      glance, &ldquo;life might have its uses, after all, and even the service of King
      James might become tolerable.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Looking beyond her, across the water, he observed a boat putting off from
      one of the great ships, which, hove to now, were rocking gently some three
      hundred yards away. Abruptly his manner changed. He was like one
      recovering, taking himself in hand again. &ldquo;If you will go below, and get
      your gear and your woman, you shall presently be sent aboard one of the
      ships of the fleet.&rdquo; He pointed to the boat as he spoke.
    </p>
    <p>
      She left him, and thereafter with Wolverstone, leaning upon the rail, he
      watched the approach of that boat, manned by a dozen sailors, and
      commanded by a scarlet figure seated stiffly in the stern sheets. He
      levelled his telescope upon that figure.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;ll not be Bishop himself,&rdquo; said Wolverstone, between question and
      assertion.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No.&rdquo; Blood closed his telescope. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know who it is.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ha!&rdquo; Wolverstone vented an ejaculation of sneering mirth. &ldquo;For all his
      eagerness, Bishop&rsquo;d be none so willing to come, hisself. He&rsquo;s been aboard
      this hulk afore, and we made him swim for it that time. He&rsquo;ll have his
      memories. So he sends a deputy.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      This deputy proved to be an officer named Calverley, a vigorous,
      self-sufficient fellow, comparatively fresh from England, whose manner
      made it clear that he came fully instructed by Colonel Bishop upon the
      matter of how to handle the pirates.
    </p>
    <p>
      His air, as he stepped into the waist of the Arabella, was haughty,
      truculent, and disdainful.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood, the King&rsquo;s commission now in his pocket, and Lord Julian standing
      beside him, waited to receive him, and Captain Calverley was a little
      taken aback at finding himself confronted by two men so very different
      outwardly from anything that he had expected. But he lost none of his
      haughty poise, and scarcely deigned a glance at the swarm of fierce,
      half-naked fellows lounging in a semicircle to form a background.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-day to you, sir,&rdquo; Blood hailed him pleasantly. &ldquo;I have the honour to
      give you welcome aboard the Arabella. My name is Blood&mdash;Captain
      Blood, at your service. You may have heard of me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Calverley stared hard. The airy manner of this redoubtable
      buccaneer was hardly what he had looked for in a desperate fellow,
      compelled to ignominious surrender. A thin, sour smile broke on the
      officer&rsquo;s haughty lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll ruffle it to the gallows, no doubt,&rdquo; he said contemptuously. &ldquo;I
      suppose that is after the fashion of your kind. Meanwhile it&rsquo;s your
      surrender I require, my man, not your impudence.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood appeared surprised, pained. He turned in appeal to Lord
      Julian.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;D&rsquo;ye hear that now? And did ye ever hear the like? But what did I tell
      ye? Ye see, the young gentleman&rsquo;s under a misapprehension entirely.
      Perhaps it&rsquo;ll save broken bones if your lordship explains just who and
      what I am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian advanced a step and bowed perfunctorily and rather
      disdainfully to that very disdainful but now dumbfounded officer. Pitt,
      who watched the scene from the quarter-deck rail, tells us that his
      lordship was as grave as a parson at a hanging. But I suspect this gravity
      for a mask under which Lord Julian was secretly amused.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have the honour to inform you, sir,&rdquo; he said stiffly, &ldquo;that Captain
      Blood holds a commission in the King&rsquo;s service under the seal of my Lord
      Sunderland, His Majesty&rsquo;s Secretary of State.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Calverley&rsquo;s face empurpled; his eyes bulged. The buccaneers in the
      background chuckled and crowed and swore among themselves in their relish
      of this comedy. For a long moment Calverley stared in silence at his
      lordship, observing the costly elegance of his dress, his air of calm
      assurance, and his cold, fastidious speech, all of which savoured
      distinctly of the great world to which he belonged.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And who the devil may you be?&rdquo; he exploded at last.
    </p>
    <p>
      Colder still and more distant than ever grew his lordship&rsquo;s voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;re not very civil, sir, as I have already noticed. My name is Wade&mdash;Lord
      Julian Wade. I am His Majesty&rsquo;s envoy to these barbarous parts, and my
      Lord Sunderland&rsquo;s near kinsman. Colonel Bishop has been notified of my
      coming.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The sudden change in Calverley&rsquo;s manner at Lord Julian&rsquo;s mention of his
      name showed that the notification had been received, and that he had
      knowledge of it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I... I believe that he has,&rdquo; said Calverley, between doubt and suspicion.
      &ldquo;That is: that he has been notified of the coming of Lord Julian Wade.
      But... but... aboard this ship...?&rdquo; The officer made a gesture of
      helplessness, and, surrendering to his bewilderment, fell abruptly silent.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was coming out on the Royal Mary....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is what we were advised.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But the Royal Mary fell a victim to a Spanish privateer, and I might
      never have arrived at all but for the gallantry of Captain Blood, who
      rescued me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Light broke upon the darkness of Calverley&rsquo;s mind. &ldquo;I see. I understand.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will take leave to doubt it.&rdquo; His lordship&rsquo;s tone abated nothing of its
      asperity. &ldquo;But that can wait. If Captain Blood will show you his
      commission, perhaps that will set all doubts at rest, and we may proceed.
      I shall be glad to reach Port Royal.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood thrust a parchment under Calverley&rsquo;s bulging eyes. The
      officer scanned it, particularly the seals and signature. He stepped back,
      a baffled, impotent man. He bowed helplessly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I must return to Colonel Bishop for my orders,&rdquo; he informed them.
    </p>
    <p>
      At that moment a lane was opened in the ranks of the men, and through this
      came Miss Bishop followed by her octoroon woman. Over his shoulder Captain
      Blood observed her approach.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps, since Colonel Bishop is with you, you will convey his niece to
      him. Miss Bishop was aboard the Royal Mary also, and I rescued her
      together with his lordship. She will be able to acquaint her uncle with
      the details of that and of the present state of affairs.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Swept thus from surprise to surprise, Captain Calverley could do no more
      than bow again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As for me,&rdquo; said Lord Julian, with intent to make Miss Bishop&rsquo;s departure
      free from all interference on the part of the buccaneers, &ldquo;I shall remain
      aboard the Arabella until we reach Port Royal. My compliments to Colonel
      Bishop. Say that I look forward to making his acquaintance there.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0022" id="link2HCH0022">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XXII. HOSTILITIES
    </h2>
    <p>
      In the great harbour of Port Royal, spacious enough to have given moorings
      to all the ships of all the navies of the world, the Arabella rode at
      anchor. Almost she had the air of a prisoner, for a quarter of a mile
      ahead, to starboard, rose the lofty, massive single round tower of the
      fort, whilst a couple of cables&rsquo;-length astern, and to larboard, rode the
      six men-of-war that composed the Jamaica squadron.
    </p>
    <p>
      Abeam with the Arabella, across the harbour, were the flat-fronted white
      buildings of that imposing city that came down to the very water&rsquo;s edge.
      Behind these the red roofs rose like terraces, marking the gentle slope
      upon which the city was built, dominated here by a turret, there by a
      spire, and behind these again a range of green hills with for ultimate
      background a sky that was like a dome of polished steel.
    </p>
    <p>
      On a cane day-bed that had been set for him on the quarter-deck, sheltered
      from the dazzling, blistering sunshine by an improvised awning of brown
      sailcloth, lounged Peter Blood, a calf-bound, well-thumbed copy of
      Horace&rsquo;s Odes neglected in his hands.
    </p>
    <p>
      From immediately below him came the swish of mops and the gurgle of water
      in the scuppers, for it was still early morning, and under the directions
      of Hayton, the bo&rsquo;sun, the swabbers were at work in the waist and
      forecastle. Despite the heat and the stagnant air, one of the toilers
      found breath to croak a ribald buccaneering ditty:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
  &ldquo;For we laid her board and board,
   And we put her to the sword,
   And we sank her in the deep blue sea.
   So It&rsquo;s heigh-ho, and heave-a-ho!
   Who&rsquo;ll sail for the Main with me?&rdquo;
 </pre>
    <p>
      Blood fetched a sigh, and the ghost of a smile played over his lean,
      sun-tanned face. Then the black brows came together above the vivid blue
      eyes, and thought swiftly closed the door upon his immediate surroundings.
    </p>
    <p>
      Things had not sped at all well with him in the past fortnight since his
      acceptance of the King&rsquo;s commission. There had been trouble with Bishop
      from the moment of landing. As Blood and Lord Julian had stepped ashore
      together, they had been met by a man who took no pains to dissemble his
      chagrin at the turn of events and his determination to change it. He
      awaited them on the mole, supported by a group of officers.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are Lord Julian Wade, I understand,&rdquo; was his truculent greeting. For
      Blood at the moment he had nothing beyond a malignant glance.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian bowed. &ldquo;I take it I have the honour to address Colonel Bishop,
      Deputy-Governor of Jamaica.&rdquo; It was almost as if his lordship were giving
      the Colonel a lesson in deportment. The Colonel accepted it, and belatedly
      bowed, removing his broad hat. Then he plunged on.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have granted, I am told, the King&rsquo;s commission to this man.&rdquo; His very
      tone betrayed the bitterness of his rancour. &ldquo;Your motives were no doubt
      worthy... your gratitude to him for delivering you from the Spaniards. But
      the thing itself is unthinkable, my lord. The commission must be
      cancelled.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think I understand,&rdquo; said Lord Julian distantly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To be sure you don&rsquo;t, or you&rsquo;d never ha&rsquo; done it. The fellow&rsquo;s bubbled
      you. Why, he&rsquo;s first a rebel, then an escaped slave, and lastly a bloody
      pirate. I&rsquo;ve been hunting him this year past.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I assure you, sir, that I was fully informed of all. I do not grant the
      King&rsquo;s commission lightly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you, by God! And what else do you call this? But as His Majesty&rsquo;s
      Deputy-Governor of Jamaica, I&rsquo;ll take leave to correct your mistake in my
      own way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah! And what way may that be?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There&rsquo;s a gallows waiting for this rascal in Port Royal.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood would have intervened at that, but Lord Julian forestalled him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see, sir, that you do not yet quite apprehend the circumstances. If it
      is a mistake to grant Captain Blood a commission, the mistake is not mine.
      I am acting upon the instructions of my Lord Sunderland; and with a full
      knowledge of all the facts, his lordship expressly designated Captain
      Blood for this commission if Captain Blood could be persuaded to accept
      it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s mouth fell open in surprise and dismay.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lord Sunderland designated him?&rdquo; he asked, amazed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Expressly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship waited a moment for a reply. None coming from the speechless
      Deputy-Governor, he asked a question: &ldquo;Would you still venture to describe
      the matter as a mistake, sir? And dare you take the risk of correcting
      it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I... I had not dreamed....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I understand, sir. Let me present Captain Blood.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Perforce Bishop must put on the best face he could command. But that it
      was no more than a mask for his fury and his venom was plain to all.
    </p>
    <p>
      From that unpromising beginning matters had not improved; rather had they
      grown worse.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood&rsquo;s thoughts were upon this and other things as he lounged there on
      the day-bed. He had been a fortnight in Port Royal, his ship virtually a
      unit now in the Jamaica squadron. And when the news of it reached Tortuga
      and the buccaneers who awaited his return, the name of Captain Blood,
      which had stood so high among the Brethren of the Coast, would become a
      byword, a thing of execration, and before all was done his life might pay
      forfeit for what would be accounted a treacherous defection. And for what
      had he placed himself in this position? For the sake of a girl who avoided
      him so persistently and intentionally that he must assume that she still
      regarded him with aversion. He had scarcely been vouchsafed a glimpse of
      her in all this fortnight, although with that in view for his main object
      he had daily haunted her uncle&rsquo;s residence, and daily braved the unmasked
      hostility and baffled rancour in which Colonel Bishop held him. Nor was
      that the worst of it. He was allowed plainly to perceive that it was the
      graceful, elegant young trifler from St. James&rsquo;s, Lord Julian Wade, to
      whom her every moment was devoted. And what chance had he, a desperate
      adventurer with a record of outlawry, against such a rival as that, a man
      of parts, moreover, as he was bound to admit?
    </p>
    <p>
      You conceive the bitterness of his soul. He beheld himself to be as the
      dog in the fable that had dropped the substance to snatch at a delusive
      shadow.
    </p>
    <p>
      He sought comfort in a line on the open page before him:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
  &ldquo;levius fit patientia quicquid corrigere est nefas.&rdquo;
 </pre>
    <p>
      Sought it, but hardly found it.
    </p>
    <p>
      A boat that had approached unnoticed from the shore came scraping and
      bumping against the great red hull of the Arabella, and a raucous voice
      sent up a hailing shout. From the ship&rsquo;s belfry two silvery notes rang
      clear and sharp, and a moment or two later the bo&rsquo;sun&rsquo;s whistle shrilled a
      long wail.
    </p>
    <p>
      The sounds disturbed Captain Blood from his disgruntled musings. He rose,
      tall, active, and arrestingly elegant in a scarlet, gold-laced coat that
      advertised his new position, and slipping the slender volume into his
      pocket, advanced to the carved rail of the quarter-deck, just as Jeremy
      Pitt was setting foot upon the companion.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A note for you from the Deputy-Governor,&rdquo; said the master shortly, as he
      proffered a folded sheet.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood broke the seal, and read. Pitt, loosely clad in shirt and breeches,
      leaned against the rail the while and watched him, unmistakable concern
      imprinted on his fair, frank countenance.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood uttered a short laugh, and curled his lip. &ldquo;It is a very peremptory
      summons,&rdquo; he said, and passed the note to his friend.
    </p>
    <p>
      The young master&rsquo;s grey eyes skimmed it. Thoughtfully he stroked his
      golden beard.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll not go?&rdquo; he said, between question and assertion.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why not? Haven&rsquo;t I been a daily visitor at the fort...?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But it&rsquo;ll be about the Old Wolf that he wants to see you. It gives him a
      grievance at last. You know, Peter, that it is Lord Julian alone has stood
      between Bishop and his hate of you. If now he can show that....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What if he can?&rdquo; Blood interrupted carelessly. &ldquo;Shall I be in greater
      danger ashore than aboard, now that we&rsquo;ve but fifty men left, and they
      lukewarm rogues who would as soon serve the King as me? Jeremy, dear lad,
      the Arabella&rsquo;s a prisoner here, bedad, &lsquo;twixt the fort there and the fleet
      yonder. Don&rsquo;t be forgetting that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Jeremy clenched his hands. &ldquo;Why did ye let Wolverstone and the others go?&rdquo;
       he cried, with a touch of bitterness. &ldquo;You should have seen the danger.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How could I in honesty have detained them? It was in the bargain.
      Besides, how could their staying have helped me?&rdquo; And as Pitt did not
      answer him: &ldquo;Ye see?&rdquo; he said, and shrugged. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll be getting my hat and
      cane and sword, and go ashore in the cock-boat. See it manned for me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;re going to deliver yourself into Bishop&rsquo;s hands,&rdquo; Pitt warned him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, well, maybe he&rsquo;ll not find me quite so easy to grasp as he
      imagines. There&rsquo;s a thorn or two left on me.&rdquo; And with a laugh Blood
      departed to his cabin.
    </p>
    <p>
      Jeremy Pitt answered the laugh with an oath. A moment he stood irresolute
      where Blood had left him. Then slowly, reluctance dragging at his feet, he
      went down the companion to give the order for the cock-boat.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If anything should happen to you, Peter,&rdquo; he said, as Blood was going
      over the side, &ldquo;Colonel Bishop had better look to himself. These fifty
      lads may be lukewarm at present, as you say, but&mdash;sink me!&mdash;they&rsquo;ll
      be anything but lukewarm if there&rsquo;s a breach of faith.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And what should be happening to me, Jeremy? Sure, now, I&rsquo;ll be back for
      dinner, so I will.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood climbed down into the waiting boat. But laugh though he might, he
      knew as well as Pitt that in going ashore that morning he carried his life
      in his hands. Because of this, it may have been that when he stepped on to
      the narrow mole, in the shadow of the shallow outer wall of the fort
      through whose crenels were thrust the black noses of its heavy guns, he
      gave order that the boat should stay for him at that spot. He realized
      that he might have to retreat in a hurry.
    </p>
    <p>
      Walking leisurely, he skirted the embattled wall, and passed through the
      great gates into the courtyard. Half-a-dozen soldiers lounged there, and
      in the shadow cast by the wall, Major Mallard, the Commandant, was slowly
      pacing. He stopped short at sight of Captain Blood, and saluted him, as
      was his due, but the smile that lifted the officer&rsquo;s stiff mostachios was
      grimly sardonic. Peter Blood&rsquo;s attention, however, was elsewhere.
    </p>
    <p>
      On his right stretched a spacious garden, beyond which rose the white
      house that was the residence of the Deputy-Governor. In that garden&rsquo;s main
      avenue, that was fringed with palm and sandalwood, he had caught sight of
      Miss Bishop alone. He crossed the courtyard with suddenly lengthened
      stride.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-morning to ye, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; was his greeting as he overtook her; and hat
      in hand now, he added on a note of protest: &ldquo;Sure, it&rsquo;s nothing less than
      uncharitable to make me run in this heat.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why do you run, then?&rdquo; she asked him coolly, standing slim and straight
      before him, all in white and very maidenly save in her unnatural
      composure. &ldquo;I am pressed,&rdquo; she informed him. &ldquo;So you will forgive me if I
      do not stay.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You were none so pressed until I came,&rdquo; he protested, and if his thin
      lips smiled, his blue eyes were oddly hard.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Since you perceive it, sir, I wonder that you trouble to be so
      insistent.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      That crossed the swords between them, and it was against Blood&rsquo;s instincts
      to avoid an engagement.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Faith, you explain yourself after a fashion,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;But since it was
      more or less in your service that I donned the King&rsquo;s coat, you should
      suffer it to cover the thief and pirate.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She shrugged and turned aside, in some resentment and some regret. Fearing
      to betray the latter, she took refuge in the former. &ldquo;I do my best,&rdquo; said
      she.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So that ye can be charitable in some ways!&rdquo; He laughed softly. &ldquo;Glory be,
      now, I should be thankful for so much. Maybe I&rsquo;m presumptuous. But I can&rsquo;t
      forget that when I was no better than a slave in your uncle&rsquo;s household in
      Barbados, ye used me with a certain kindness.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why not? In those days you had some claim upon my kindness. You were just
      an unfortunate gentleman then.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And what else would you be calling me now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hardly unfortunate. We have heard of your good fortune on the seas&mdash;how
      your luck has passed into a byword. And we have heard other things: of
      your good fortune in other directions.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She spoke hastily, the thought of Mademoiselle d&rsquo;Ogeron in her mind. And
      instantly would have recalled the words had she been able. But Peter Blood
      swept them lightly aside, reading into them none of her meaning, as she
      feared he would.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye&mdash;a deal of lies, devil a doubt, as I could prove to you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I cannot think why you should trouble to put yourself on your defence,&rdquo;
       she discouraged him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So that ye may think less badly of me than you do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What I think of you can be a very little matter to you, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      This was a disarming stroke. He abandoned combat for expostulation.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Can ye say that now? Can ye say that, beholding me in this livery of a
      service I despise? Didn&rsquo;t ye tell me that I might redeem the past? It&rsquo;s
      little enough I am concerned to redeem the past save only in your eyes. In
      my own I&rsquo;ve done nothing at all that I am ashamed of, considering the
      provocation I received.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her glance faltered, and fell away before his own that was so intent.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I... I can&rsquo;t think why you should speak to me like this,&rdquo; she said, with
      less than her earlier assurance.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah, now, can&rsquo;t ye, indeed?&rdquo; he cried. &ldquo;Sure, then, I&rsquo;ll be telling ye.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, please.&rdquo; There was real alarm in her voice. &ldquo;I realize fully what you
      did, and I realize that partly, at least, you may have been urged by
      consideration for myself. Believe me, I am very grateful. I shall always
      be grateful.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But if it&rsquo;s also your intention always to think of me as a thief and a
      pirate, faith, ye may keep your gratitude for all the good it&rsquo;s like to do
      me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A livelier colour crept into her cheeks. There was a perceptible heave of
      the slight breast that faintly swelled the flimsy bodice of white silk.
      But if she resented his tone and his words, she stifled her resentment.
      She realized that perhaps she had, herself, provoked his anger. She
      honestly desired to make amends.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are mistaken,&rdquo; she began. &ldquo;It isn&rsquo;t that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But they were fated to misunderstand each other.
    </p>
    <p>
      Jealousy, that troubler of reason, had been over-busy with his wits as it
      had with hers.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is it, then?&rdquo; quoth he, and added the question: &ldquo;Lord Julian?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She started, and stared at him blankly indignant now.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Och, be frank with me,&rdquo; he urged her, unpardonably. &ldquo;&lsquo;Twill be a
      kindness, so it will.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For a moment she stood before him with quickened breathing, the colour
      ebbing and flowing in her cheeks. Then she looked past him, and tilted her
      chin forward.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You... you are quite insufferable,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I beg that you will let me
      pass.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stepped aside, and with the broad feathered hat which he still held in
      his hand, he waved her on towards the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll not be detaining you any longer, ma&rsquo;am. After all, the cursed thing
      I did for nothing can be undone. Ye&rsquo;ll remember afterwards that it was
      your hardness drove me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She moved to depart, then checked, and faced him again. It was she now who
      was on her defence, her voice quivering with indignation.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You take that tone! You dare to take that tone!&rdquo; she cried, astounding
      him by her sudden vehemence. &ldquo;You have the effrontery to upbraid me
      because I will not take your hands when I know how they are stained; when
      I know you for a murderer and worse?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stared at her open-mouthed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A murderer&mdash;I?&rdquo; he said at last.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Must I name your victims? Did you not murder Levasseur?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Levasseur?&rdquo; He smiled a little. &ldquo;So they&rsquo;ve told you about that!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you deny it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I killed him, it is true. I can remember killing another man in
      circumstances that were very similar. That was in Bridgetown on the night
      of the Spanish raid. Mary Traill would tell you of it. She was present.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He clapped his hat on his head with a certain abrupt fierceness, and
      strode angrily away, before she could answer or even grasp the full
      significance of what he had said.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0023" id="link2HCH0023">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XXIII. HOSTAGES
    </h2>
    <p>
      Peter Blood stood in the pillared portico of Government House, and with
      unseeing eyes that were laden with pain and anger, stared out across the
      great harbour of Port Royal to the green hills rising from the farther
      shore and the ridge of the Blue Mountains beyond, showing hazily through
      the quivering heat.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was aroused by the return of the negro who had gone to announce him,
      and following now this slave, he made his way through the house to the
      wide piazza behind it, in whose shade Colonel Bishop and my Lord Julian
      Wade took what little air there was.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So ye&rsquo;ve come,&rdquo; the Deputy-Governor hailed him, and followed the greeting
      by a series of grunts of vague but apparently ill-humoured import.
    </p>
    <p>
      He did not trouble to rise, not even when Lord Julian, obeying the
      instincts of finer breeding, set him the example. From under scowling
      brows the wealthy Barbados planter considered his sometime slave, who, hat
      in hand, leaning lightly upon his long beribboned cane, revealed nothing
      in his countenance of the anger which was being steadily nourished by this
      cavalier reception.
    </p>
    <p>
      At last, with scowling brow and in self-sufficient tones, Colonel Bishop
      delivered himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have sent for you, Captain Blood, because of certain news that has just
      reached me. I am informed that yesterday evening a frigate left the
      harbour having on board your associate Wolverstone and a hundred men of
      the hundred and fifty that were serving under you. His lordship and I
      shall be glad to have your explanation of how you came to permit that
      departure.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Permit?&rdquo; quoth Blood. &ldquo;I ordered it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The answer left Bishop speechless for a moment. Then:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You ordered it?&rdquo; he said in accents of unbelief, whilst Lord Julian
      raised his eyebrows. &ldquo;&lsquo;Swounds! Perhaps you&rsquo;ll explain yourself? Whither
      has Wolverstone gone?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To Tortuga. He&rsquo;s gone with a message to the officers commanding the other
      four ships of the fleet that is awaiting me there, telling them what&rsquo;s
      happened and why they are no longer to expect me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Bishop&rsquo;s great face seemed to swell and its high colour to deepen. He
      swung to Lord Julian.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You hear that, my lord? Deliberately he has let Wolverstone loose upon
      the seas again&mdash;Wolverstone, the worst of all that gang of pirates
      after himself. I hope your lordship begins at last to perceive the folly
      of granting the King&rsquo;s commission to such a man as this against all my
      counsels. Why, this thing is... it&rsquo;s just mutiny... treason! By God! It&rsquo;s
      matter for a court-martial.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you cease your blather of mutiny and treason and courts-martial?&rdquo;
       Blood put on his hat, and sat down unbidden. &ldquo;I have sent Wolverstone to
      inform Hagthorpe and Christian and Yberville and the rest of my lads that
      they&rsquo;ve one clear month in which to follow my example, quit piracy, and
      get back to their boucans or their logwood, or else sail out of the
      Caribbean Sea. That&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;ve done.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But the men?&rdquo; his lordship interposed in his level, cultured voice. &ldquo;This
      hundred men that Wolverstone has taken with him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They are those of my crew who have no taste for King James&rsquo;s service, and
      have preferred to seek work of other kinds. It was in our compact, my
      lord, that there should be no constraining of my men.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t remember it,&rdquo; said his lordship, with sincerity.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood looked at him in surprise. Then he shrugged. &ldquo;Faith, I&rsquo;m not to
      blame for your lordship&rsquo;s poor memory. I say that it was so; and I don&rsquo;t
      lie. I&rsquo;ve never found it necessary. In any case ye couldn&rsquo;t have supposed
      that I should consent to anything different.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And then the Deputy-Governor exploded.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have given those damned rascals in Tortuga this warning so that they
      may escape! That is what you have done. That is how you abuse the
      commission that has saved your own neck!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood considered him steadily, his face impassive. &ldquo;I will remind
      you,&rdquo; he said at last, very quietly, &ldquo;that the object in view was&mdash;leaving
      out of account your own appetites which, as every one knows, are just
      those of a hangman&mdash;to rid the Caribbean of buccaneers. Now, I&rsquo;ve
      taken the most effective way of accomplishing that object. The knowledge
      that I&rsquo;ve entered the King&rsquo;s service should in itself go far towards
      disbanding the fleet of which I was until lately the admiral.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see!&rdquo; sneered the Deputy-Governor malevolently. &ldquo;And if it does not?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It will be time enough then to consider what else is to be done.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian forestalled a fresh outburst on the part of Bishop.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is possible,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;that my Lord Sunderland will be satisfied,
      provided that the solution is such as you promise.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was a courteous, conciliatory speech. Urged by friendliness towards
      Blood and understanding of the difficult position in which the buccaneer
      found himself, his lordship was disposed to take his stand upon the letter
      of his instructions. Therefore he now held out a friendly hand to help him
      over the latest and most difficult obstacle which Blood himself had
      enabled Bishop to place in the way of his redemption. Unfortunately the
      last person from whom Peter Blood desired assistance at that moment was
      this young nobleman, whom he regarded with the jaundiced eyes of jealousy.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Anyway,&rdquo; he answered, with a suggestion of defiance and more than a
      suggestion of a sneer, &ldquo;it&rsquo;s the most ye should expect from me, and
      certainly it&rsquo;s the most ye&rsquo;ll get.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship frowned, and dabbed his lips with a handkerchief.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think that I quite like the way you put it. Indeed, upon
      reflection, Captain Blood, I am sure that I do not.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sorry for that, so I am,&rdquo; said Blood impudently. &ldquo;But there it is.
      I&rsquo;m not on that account concerned to modify it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship&rsquo;s pale eyes opened a little wider. Languidly he raised his
      eyebrows.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah!&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re a prodigiously uncivil fellow. You disappoint me,
      sir. I had formed the notion that you might be a gentleman.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And that&rsquo;s not your lordship&rsquo;s only mistake,&rdquo; Bishop cut in. &ldquo;You made a
      worse when you gave him the King&rsquo;s commission, and so sheltered the rascal
      from the gallows I had prepared for him in Port Royal.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye&mdash;but the worst mistake of all in this matter of commissions,&rdquo;
       said Blood to his lordship, &ldquo;was the one that trade this greasy slaver
      Deputy-Governor of Jamaica instead of its hangman, which is the office for
      which he&rsquo;s by nature fitted.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Captain Blood!&rdquo; said his lordship sharply in reproof. &ldquo;Upon my soul and
      honour, sir, you go much too far. You are....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But here Bishop interrupted him. He had heaved himself to his feet, at
      last, and was venting his fury in unprintable abuse. Captain Blood, who
      had also risen, stood apparently impassive, for the storm to spend itself.
      When at last this happened, he addressed himself quietly to Lord Julian,
      as if Colonel Bishop had not spoken.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your lordship was about to say?&rdquo; he asked, with challenging smoothness.
    </p>
    <p>
      But his lordship had by now recovered his habitual composure, and was
      again disposed to be conciliatory. He laughed and shrugged.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Faith! here&rsquo;s a deal of unnecessary heat,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;And God knows this
      plaguey climate provides enough of that. Perhaps, Colonel Bishop, you are
      a little uncompromising; and you, sir, are certainly a deal too peppery. I
      have said, speaking on behalf of my Lord Sunderland, that I am content to
      await the result of your experiment.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But Bishop&rsquo;s fury had by now reached a stage in which it was not to be
      restrained.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you, indeed?&rdquo; he roared. &ldquo;Well, then, I am not. This is a matter in
      which your lordship must allow me to be the better judge. And, anyhow,
      I&rsquo;ll take the risk of acting on my own responsibility.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian abandoned the struggle. He smiled wearily, shrugged, and waved
      a hand in implied resignation. The Deputy-Governor stormed on.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Since my lord here has given you a commission, I can&rsquo;t regularly deal
      with you out of hand for piracy as you deserve. But you shall answer
      before a court-martial for your action in the matter of Wolverstone, and
      take the consequences.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;Now we come to it. And it&rsquo;s yourself as
      Deputy-Governor will preside over that same court-martial. So that ye can
      wipe off old scores by hanging me, it&rsquo;s little ye care how ye do it!&rdquo; He
      laughed, and added: &ldquo;Praemonitus, praemunitus.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What shall that mean?&rdquo; quoth Lord Julian sharply.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I had imagined that your lordship would have had some education.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was at pains, you see, to be provocative.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not the literal meaning I am asking, sir,&rdquo; said Lord Julian, with
      frosty dignity. &ldquo;I want to know what you desire me to understand?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll leave your lordship guessing,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;And I&rsquo;ll be wishing ye
      both a very good day.&rdquo; He swept off his feathered hat, and made them a leg
      very elegantly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Before you go,&rdquo; said Bishop, &ldquo;and to save you from any idle rashness,
      I&rsquo;ll tell you that the Harbour-Master and the Commandant have their
      orders. You don&rsquo;t leave Port Royal, my fine gallows bird. Damme, I mean to
      provide you with permanent moorings here, in Execution Dock.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood stiffened, and his vivid blue eyes stabbed the bloated face of
      his enemy. He passed his long cane into his left hand, and with his right
      thrust negligently into the breast of his doublet, he swung to Lord
      Julian, who was thoughtfully frowning.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your lordship, I think, promised me immunity from this.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What I may have promised,&rdquo; said his lordship, &ldquo;your own conduct makes it
      difficult to perform.&rdquo; He rose. &ldquo;You did me a service, Captain Blood, and
      I had hoped that we might be friends. But since you prefer to have it
      otherwise....&rdquo; He shrugged, and waved a hand towards the Deputy-Governor.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood completed the sentence in his own way:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye mean that ye haven&rsquo;t the strength of character to resist the urgings
      of a bully.&rdquo; He was apparently at his ease, and actually smiling. &ldquo;Well,
      well&mdash;as I said before&mdash;praemonitus, praemunitus. I&rsquo;m afraid
      that ye&rsquo;re no scholar, Bishop, or ye&rsquo;d know that I means forewarned,
      forearmed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Forewarned? Ha!&rdquo; Bishop almost snarled. &ldquo;The warning comes a little late.
      You do not leave this house.&rdquo; He took a step in the direction of the
      doorway, and raised his voice. &ldquo;Ho there...&rdquo; he was beginning to call.
    </p>
    <p>
      Then with a sudden audible catch in his breath, he stopped short. Captain
      Blood&rsquo;s right hand had reemerged from the breast of his doublet, bringing
      with it a long pistol with silver mountings richly chased, which he
      levelled within a foot of the Deputy-Governor&rsquo;s head.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And forearmed,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t stir from where you are, my lord, or
      there may be an accident.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      And my lord, who had been moving to Bishop&rsquo;s assistance, stood instantly
      arrested. Chap-fallen, with much of his high colour suddenly departed, the
      Deputy-Governor was swaying on unsteady legs. Peter Blood considered him
      with a grimness that increased his panic.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I marvel that I don&rsquo;t pistol you without more ado, ye fat blackguard. If
      I don&rsquo;t, it&rsquo;s for the same reason that once before I gave ye your life
      when it was forfeit. Ye&rsquo;re not aware of the reason, to be sure; but it may
      comfort ye to know that it exists. At the same time I&rsquo;ll warn ye not to
      put too heavy a strain on my generosity, which resides at the moment in my
      trigger-finger. Ye mean to hang me, and since that&rsquo;s the worst that can
      happen to me anyway, you&rsquo;ll realize that I&rsquo;ll not boggle at increasing the
      account by spilling your nasty blood.&rdquo; He cast his cane from him, thus
      disengaging his left hand. &ldquo;Be good enough to give me your arm, Colonel
      Bishop. Come, come, man, your arm.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Under the compulsion of that sharp tone, those resolute eyes, and that
      gleaming pistol, Bishop obeyed without demur. His recent foul volubility
      was stemmed. He could not trust himself to speak. Captain Blood tucked his
      left arm through the Deputy-Governor&rsquo;s proffered right. Then he thrust his
      own right hand with its pistol back into the breast of his doublet.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Though invisible, it&rsquo;s aiming at ye none the less, and I give you my word
      of honour that I&rsquo;ll shoot ye dead upon the very least provocation, whether
      that provocation is yours or another&rsquo;s. Ye&rsquo;ll bear that in mind, Lord
      Julian. And now, ye greasy hangman, step out as brisk and lively as ye
      can, and behave as naturally as ye may, or it&rsquo;s the black stream of
      Cocytus ye&rsquo;ll be contemplating.&rdquo; Arm in arm they passed through the house,
      and down the garden, where Arabella lingered, awaiting Peter Blood&rsquo;s
      return.
    </p>
    <p>
      Consideration of his parting words had brought her first turmoil of mind,
      then a clear perception of what might be indeed the truth of the death of
      Levasseur. She perceived that the particular inference drawn from it might
      similarly have been drawn from Blood&rsquo;s deliverance of Mary Traill. When a
      man so risks his life for a woman, the rest is easily assumed. For the men
      who will take such risks without hope of personal gain are few. Blood was
      of those few, as he had proved in the case of Mary Traill.
    </p>
    <p>
      It needed no further assurances of his to convince her that she had done
      him a monstrous injustice. She remembered words he had used&mdash;words
      overheard aboard his ship (which he had named the Arabella) on the night
      of her deliverance from the Spanish admiral; words he had uttered when she
      had approved his acceptance of the King&rsquo;s commission; the words he had
      spoken to her that very morning, which had but served to move her
      indignation. All these assumed a fresh meaning in her mind, delivered now
      from its unwarranted preconceptions.
    </p>
    <p>
      Therefore she lingered there in the garden, awaiting his return that she
      might make amends; that she might set a term to all misunderstanding. In
      impatience she awaited him. Yet her patience, it seemed, was to be tested
      further. For when at last he came, it was in company&mdash;unusually close
      and intimate company&mdash;with her uncle. In vexation she realized that
      explanations must be postponed. Could she have guessed the extent of that
      postponement, vexation would have been changed into despair.
    </p>
    <p>
      He passed, with his companion, from that fragrant garden into the
      courtyard of the fort. Here the Commandant, who had been instructed to
      hold himself in readiness with the necessary men against the need to
      effect the arrest of Captain Blood, was amazed by the curious spectacle of
      the Deputy-Governor of Jamaica strolling forth arm in arm and apparently
      on the friendliest terms with the intended prisoner. For as they went,
      Blood was chatting and laughing briskly.
    </p>
    <p>
      They passed out of the gates unchallenged, and so came to the mole where
      the cock-boat from the Arabella was waiting. They took their places side
      by side in the stern sheets, and were pulled away together, always very
      close and friendly, to the great red ship where Jeremy Pitt so anxiously
      awaited news.
    </p>
    <p>
      You conceive the master&rsquo;s amazement to see the Deputy-Governor come
      toiling up the entrance ladder, with Blood following very close behind
      him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sure, I walked into a trap, as ye feared, Jeremy,&rdquo; Blood hailed him. &ldquo;But
      I walked out again, and fetched the trapper with me. He loves his life,
      does this fat rascal.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop stood in the waist, his great face blenched to the colour
      of clay, his mouth loose, almost afraid to look at the sturdy ruffians who
      lounged about the shot-rack on the main hatch.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood shouted an order to the bo&rsquo;sun, who was leaning against the
      forecastle bulkhead.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Throw me a rope with a running noose over the yardarm there, against the
      need of it. Now, don&rsquo;t be alarming yourself, Colonel, darling. It&rsquo;s no
      more than a provision against your being unreasonable, which I am sure
      ye&rsquo;ll not be. We&rsquo;ll talk the matter over whiles we are dining, for I trust
      ye&rsquo;ll not refuse to honour my table by your company.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He led away the will-less, cowed bully to the great cabin. Benjamin, the
      negro steward, in white drawers and cotton shirt, made haste by his
      command to serve dinner.
    </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop collapsed on the locker under the stern ports, and spoke
      now for the first time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I ask wha... what are your intentions?&rdquo; he quavered.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why, nothing sinister, Colonel. Although ye deserve nothing less than
      that same rope and yardarm, I assure you that it&rsquo;s to be employed only as
      a last resource. Ye&rsquo;ve said his lordship made a mistake when he handed me
      the commission which the Secretary of State did me the honour to design
      for me. I&rsquo;m disposed to agree with you; so I&rsquo;ll take to the sea again.
      Cras ingens iterabimus aequor. It&rsquo;s the fine Latin scholar ye&rsquo;ll be when
      I&rsquo;ve done with ye. I&rsquo;ll be getting back to Tortuga and my buccaneers, who
      at least are honest, decent fellows. So I&rsquo;ve fetched ye aboard as a
      hostage.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My God!&rdquo; groaned the Deputy-Governor. &ldquo;Ye... ye never mean that ye&rsquo;ll
      carry me to Tortuga!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood laughed outright. &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;d never serve ye such a bad turn as that.
      No, no. All I want is that ye ensure my safe departure from Port Royal.
      And, if ye&rsquo;re reasonable, I&rsquo;ll not even trouble you to swim for it this
      time. Ye&rsquo;ve given certain orders to your Harbour-Master, and others to the
      Commandant of your plaguey fort. Ye&rsquo;ll be so good as to send for them both
      aboard here, and inform them in my presence that the Arabella is leaving
      this afternoon on the King&rsquo;s service and is to pass out unmolested. And so
      as to make quite sure of their obedience, they shall go a little voyage
      with us, themselves. Here&rsquo;s what you require. Now write&mdash;unless you
      prefer the yardarm.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop heaved himself up in a pet. &ldquo;You constrain me with
      violence...&rdquo; he was beginning.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood smoothly interrupted him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sure, now, I am not constraining you at all. I&rsquo;m giving you a perfectly
      free choice between the pen and the rope. It&rsquo;s a matter for yourself
      entirely.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Bishop glared at him; then shrugging heavily, he took up the pen and sat
      down at the table. In an unsteady hand he wrote that summons to his
      officers. Blood despatched it ashore; and then bade his unwilling guest to
      table.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I trust, Colonel, your appetite is as stout as usual.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The wretched Bishop took the seat to which he was commanded. As for
      eating, however, that was not easy to a man in his position; nor did Blood
      press him. The Captain, himself, fell to with a good appetite. But before
      he was midway through the meal came Hayton to inform him that Lord Julian
      Wade had just come aboard, and was asking to see him instantly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was expecting him,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;Fetch him in.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian came. He was very stern and dignified. His eyes took in the
      situation at a glance, as Captain Blood rose to greet him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s mighty friendly of you to have joined us, my lord.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Captain Blood,&rdquo; said his lordship with asperity, &ldquo;I find your humour a
      little forced. I don&rsquo;t know what may be your intentions; but I wonder do
      you realize the risks you are running.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And I wonder does your lordship realize the risk to yourself in following
      us aboard as I had counted that you would.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What shall that mean, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood signalled to Benjamin, who was standing behind Bishop.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Set a chair for his lordship. Hayton, send his lordship&rsquo;s boat ashore.
      Tell them he&rsquo;ll not be returning yet awhile.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What&rsquo;s that?&rdquo; cried his lordship. &ldquo;Blister me! D&rsquo;ye mean to detain me?
      Are ye mad?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Better wait, Hayton, in case his lordship should turn violent,&rdquo; said
      Blood. &ldquo;You, Benjamin, you heard the message. Deliver it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you tell me what you intend, sir?&rdquo; demanded his lordship, quivering
      with anger.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just to make myself and my lads here safe from Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s gallows.
      I&rsquo;ve said that I trusted to your gallantry not to leave him in the lurch,
      but to follow him hither, and there&rsquo;s a note from his hand gone ashore to
      summon the Harbour-Master and the Commandant of the fort. Once they are
      aboard, I shall have all the hostages I need for our safety.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You scoundrel!&rdquo; said his lordship through his teeth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sure, now, that&rsquo;s entirely a matter of the point of view,&rdquo; said Blood.
      &ldquo;Ordinarily it isn&rsquo;t the kind of name I could suffer any man to apply to
      me. Still, considering that ye willingly did me a service once, and that
      ye&rsquo;re likely unwillingly to do me another now, I&rsquo;ll overlook your
      discourtesy, so I will.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship laughed. &ldquo;You fool,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Do you dream that I came
      aboard your pirate ship without taking my measures? I informed the
      Commandant of exactly how you had compelled Colonel Bishop to accompany
      you. Judge now whether he or the Harbour-Master will obey the summons, or
      whether you will be allowed to depart as you imagine.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood&rsquo;s face became grave. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sorry for that,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      I thought you would be, answered his lordship.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, but not on my own account. It&rsquo;s the Deputy-Governor there I&rsquo;m sorry
      for. D&rsquo;ye know what Ye&rsquo;ve done? Sure, now, ye&rsquo;ve very likely hanged him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My God!&rdquo; cried Bishop in a sudden increase of panic.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If they so much as put a shot across my bows, up goes their
      Deputy-Governor to the yardarm. Your only hope, Colonel, lies in the fact
      that I shall send them word of that intention. And so that you may mend as
      far as you can the harm you have done, it&rsquo;s yourself shall bear them the
      message, my lord.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll see you damned before I do,&rdquo; fumed his lordship.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why, that&rsquo;s unreasonable and unreasoning. But if ye insist, why, another
      messenger will do as well, and another hostage aboard&mdash;as I had
      originally intended&mdash;will make my hand the stronger.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian stared at him, realizing exactly what he had refused.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll think better of it now that ye understand?&rdquo; quoth Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye, in God&rsquo;s name, go, my lord,&rdquo; spluttered Bishop, &ldquo;and make yourself
      obeyed. This damned pirate has me by the throat.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship surveyed him with an eye that was not by any means admiring.
      &ldquo;Why, if that is your wish...&rdquo; he began. Then he shrugged, and turned
      again to Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose I can trust you that no harm will come to Colonel Bishop if you
      are allowed to sail?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have my word for it,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;And also that I shall put him
      safely ashore again without delay.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian bowed stiffly to the cowering Deputy-Governor. &ldquo;You
      understand, sir, that I do as you desire,&rdquo; he said coldly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye, man, aye!&rdquo; Bishop assented hastily.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very well.&rdquo; Lord Julian bowed again and took his departure. Blood
      escorted him to the entrance ladder at the foot of which still swung the
      Arabella&rsquo;s own cock-boat.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s good-bye, my lord,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;And there&rsquo;s another thing.&rdquo; He
      proffered a parchment that he had drawn from his pocket. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s the
      commission. Bishop was right when he said it was a mistake.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian considered him, and considering him his expression softened.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sorry,&rdquo; he said sincerely.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In other circumstances...&rdquo; began Blood. &ldquo;Oh, but there! Ye&rsquo;ll understand.
      The boat&rsquo;s waiting.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Yet with his foot on the first rung of the ladder, Lord Julian hesitated.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I still do not perceive&mdash;blister me if I do!&mdash;why you should
      not have found some one else to carry your message to the Commandant, and
      kept me aboard as an added hostage for his obedience to your wishes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood&rsquo;s vivid eyes looked into the other&rsquo;s that were clear and honest, and
      he smiled, a little wistfully. A moment he seemed to hesitate. Then he
      explained himself quite fully.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why shouldn&rsquo;t I tell you? It&rsquo;s the same reason that&rsquo;s been urging me to
      pick a quarrel with you so that I might have the satisfaction of slipping
      a couple of feet of steel into your vitals. When I accepted your
      commission, I was moved to think it might redeem me in the eyes of Miss
      Bishop&mdash;for whose sake, as you may have guessed, I took it. But I
      have discovered that such a thing is beyond accomplishment. I should have
      known it for a sick man&rsquo;s dream. I have discovered also that if she&rsquo;s
      choosing you, as I believe she is, she&rsquo;s choosing wisely between us, and
      that&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;ll not have your life risked by keeping you aboard whilst the
      message goes by another who might bungle it. And now perhaps ye&rsquo;ll
      understand.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian stared at him bewildered. His long, aristocratic face was very
      pale.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My God!&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;And you tell me this?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I tell you because... Oh, plague on it!&mdash;so that ye may tell her; so
      that she may be made to realize that there&rsquo;s something of the unfortunate
      gentleman left under the thief and pirate she accounts me, and that her
      own good is my supreme desire. Knowing that, she may... faith, she may
      remember me more kindly&mdash;if It&rsquo;s only in her prayers. That&rsquo;s all, my
      lord.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian continued to look at the buccaneer in silence. In silence, at
      last, he held out his hand; and in silence Blood took it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wonder whether you are right,&rdquo; said his lordship, &ldquo;and whether you are
      not the better man.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where she is concerned see that you make sure that I am right. Good-bye
      to you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian wrung his hand in silence, went down the ladder, and was
      pulled ashore. From the distance he waved to Blood, who stood leaning on
      the bulwarks watching the receding cock-boat.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Arabella sailed within the hour, moving lazily before a sluggish
      breeze. The fort remained silent and there was no movement from the fleet
      to hinder her departure. Lord Julian had carried the message effectively,
      and had added to it his own personal commands.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0024" id="link2HCH0024">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XXIV. WAR
    </h2>
    <p>
      Five miles out at sea from Port Royal, whence the details of the coast of
      Jamaica were losing their sharpness, the Arabella hove to, and the sloop
      she had been towing was warped alongside.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood escorted his compulsory guest to the head of the ladder.
      Colonel Bishop, who for two hours and more had been in a state of mortal
      anxiety, breathed freely at last; and as the tide of his fears receded, so
      that of his deep-rooted hate of this audacious buccaneer resumed its
      normal flow. But he practised circumspection. If in his heart he vowed
      that once back in Port Royal there was no effort he would spare, no nerve
      he would not strain, to bring Peter Blood to final moorings in Execution
      Dock, at least he kept that vow strictly to himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      Peter Blood had no illusions. He was not, and never would be, the complete
      pirate. There was not another buccaneer in all the Caribbean who would
      have denied himself the pleasure of stringing Colonel Bishop from the
      yardarm, and by thus finally stifling the vindictive planter&rsquo;s hatred have
      increased his own security. But Blood was not of these. Moreover, in the
      case of Colonel Bishop there was a particular reason for restraint.
      Because he was Arabella Bishop&rsquo;s uncle, his life must remain sacred to
      Captain Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      And so the Captain smiled into the sallow, bloated face and the little
      eyes that fixed him with a malevolence not to be dissembled.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A safe voyage home to you, Colonel, darling,&rdquo; said he in valediction, and
      from his easy, smiling manner you would never have dreamt of the pain he
      carried in his breast. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s the second time ye&rsquo;ve served me for a
      hostage. Ye&rsquo;ll be well advised to avoid a third. I&rsquo;m not lucky to you,
      Colonel, as you should be perceiving.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Jeremy Pitt, the master, lounging at Blood&rsquo;s elbow, looked darkly upon the
      departure of the Deputy-Governor. Behind them a little mob of grim,
      stalwart, sun-tanned buccaneers were restrained from cracking Bishop like
      a flea only by their submission to the dominant will of their leader. They
      had learnt from Pitt while yet in Port Royal of their Captain&rsquo;s danger,
      and whilst as ready as he to throw over the King&rsquo;s service which had been
      thrust upon them, yet they resented the manner in which this had been
      rendered necessary, and they marvelled now at Blood&rsquo;s restraint where
      Bishop was concerned. The Deputy-Governor looked round and met the
      lowering hostile glances of those fierce eyes. Instinct warned him that
      his life at that moment was held precariously, that an injudicious word
      might precipitate an explosion of hatred from which no human power could
      save him. Therefore he said nothing. He inclined his head in silence to
      the Captain, and went blundering and stumbling in his haste down that
      ladder to the sloop and its waiting negro crew.
    </p>
    <p>
      They pushed off the craft from the red hull of the Arabella, bent to their
      sweeps, then, hoisting sail, headed back for Port Royal, intent upon
      reaching it before darkness should come down upon them. And Bishop, the
      great bulk of him huddled in the stem sheets, sat silent, his black brows
      knitted, his coarse lips pursed, malevolence and vindictiveness so
      whelming now his recent panic that he forgot his near escape of the
      yardarm and the running noose.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the mole at Port Royal, under the low, embattled wall of the fort,
      Major Mallard and Lord Julian waited to receive him, and it was with
      infinite relief that they assisted him from the sloop.
    </p>
    <p>
      Major Mallard was disposed to be apologetic.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Glad to see you safe, sir,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;I&rsquo;d have sunk Blood&rsquo;s ship in spite
      of your excellency&rsquo;s being aboard but for your own orders by Lord Julian,
      and his lordship&rsquo;s assurance that he had Blood&rsquo;s word for it that no harm
      should come to you so that no harm came to him. I&rsquo;ll confess I thought it
      rash of his lordship to accept the word of a damned pirate....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have found it as good as another&rsquo;s,&rdquo; said his lordship, cropping the
      Major&rsquo;s too eager eloquence. He spoke with an unusual degree of that
      frosty dignity he could assume upon occasion. The fact is that his
      lordship was in an exceedingly bad humour. Having written jubilantly home
      to the Secretary of State that his mission had succeeded, he was now faced
      with the necessity of writing again to confess that this success had been
      ephemeral. And because Major Mallard&rsquo;s crisp mostachios were lifted by a
      sneer at the notion of a buccaneer&rsquo;s word being acceptable, he added still
      more sharply: &ldquo;My justification is here in the person of Colonel Bishop
      safely returned. As against that, sir, your opinion does not weigh for
      very much. You should realize it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, as your lordship says.&rdquo; Major Mallard&rsquo;s manner was tinged with irony.
      &ldquo;To be sure, here is the Colonel safe and sound. And out yonder is Captain
      Blood, also safe and sound, to begin his piratical ravages all over
      again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I do not propose to discuss the reasons with you, Major Mallard.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And, anyway, it&rsquo;s not for long,&rdquo; growled the Colonel, finding speech at
      last. &ldquo;No, by.....&rdquo; He emphasized the assurance by an unprintable oath.
      &ldquo;If I spend the last shilling of my fortune and the last ship of the
      Jamaica fleet, I&rsquo;ll have that rascal in a hempen necktie before I rest.
      And I&rsquo;ll not be long about it.&rdquo; He had empurpled in his angry vehemence,
      and the veins of his forehead stood out like whipcord. Then he checked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You did well to follow Lord Julian&rsquo;s instructions,&rdquo; he commended the
      Major. With that he turned from him, and took his lordship by the arm.
      &ldquo;Come, my lord. We must take order about this, you and I.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They went off together, skirting the redoubt, and so through courtyard and
      garden to the house where Arabella waited anxiously. The sight of her
      uncle brought her infinite relief, not only on his own account, but on
      account also of Captain Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You took a great risk, sir,&rdquo; she gravely told Lord Julian after the
      ordinary greetings had been exchanged.
    </p>
    <p>
      But Lord Julian answered her as he had answered Major Mallard. &ldquo;There was
      no risk, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked at him in some astonishment. His long, aristocratic face wore a
      more melancholy, pensive air than usual. He answered the enquiry in her
      glance:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So that Blood&rsquo;s ship were allowed to pass the fort, no harm could come to
      Colonel Bishop. Blood pledged me his word for that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A faint smile broke the set of her lips, which hitherto had been wistful,
      and a little colour tinged her cheeks. She would have pursued the subject,
      but the Deputy-Governor&rsquo;s mood did not permit it. He sneered and snorted
      at the notion of Blood&rsquo;s word being good for anything, forgetting that he
      owed to it his own preservation at that moment.
    </p>
    <p>
      At supper, and for long thereafter he talked of nothing but Blood&mdash;of
      how he would lay him by the heels, and what hideous things he would
      perform upon his body. And as he drank heavily the while, his speech
      became increasingly gross and his threats increasingly horrible; until in
      the end Arabella withdrew, white-faced and almost on the verge of tears.
      It was not often that Bishop revealed himself to his niece. Oddly enough,
      this coarse, overbearing planter went in a certain awe of that slim girl.
      It was as if she had inherited from her father the respect in which he had
      always been held by his brother.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian, who began to find Bishop disgusting beyond endurance, excused
      himself soon after, and went in quest of the lady. He had yet to deliver
      the message from Captain Blood, and this, he thought, would be his
      opportunity. But Miss Bishop had retired for the night, and Lord Julian
      must curb his impatience&mdash;it amounted by now to nothing less&mdash;until
      the morrow.
    </p>
    <p>
      Very early next morning, before the heat of the day came to render the
      open intolerable to his lordship, he espied her from his window moving
      amid the azaleas in the garden. It was a fitting setting for one who was
      still as much a delightful novelty to him in womanhood as was the azalea
      among flowers. He hurried forth to join her, and when, aroused from her
      pensiveness, she had given him a good-morrow, smiling and frank, he
      explained himself by the announcement that he bore her a message from
      Captain Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      He observed her little start and the slight quiver of her lips, and
      observed thereafter not only her pallor and the shadowy rings about her
      eyes, but also that unusually wistful air which last night had escaped his
      notice.
    </p>
    <p>
      They moved out of the open to one of the terraces, where a pergola of
      orange-trees provided a shaded sauntering space that was at once cool and
      fragrant. As they went, he considered her admiringly, and marvelled at
      himself that it should have taken him so long fully to realize her slim,
      unusual grace, and to find her, as he now did, so entirely desirable, a
      woman whose charm must irradiate all the life of a man, and touch its
      commonplaces into magic.
    </p>
    <p>
      He noted the sheen of her red-brown hair, and how gracefully one of its
      heavy ringlets coiled upon her slender, milk-white neck. She wore a gown
      of shimmering grey silk, and a scarlet rose, fresh-gathered, was pinned at
      her breast like a splash of blood. Always thereafter when he thought of
      her it was as he saw her at that moment, as never, I think, until that
      moment had he seen her.
    </p>
    <p>
      In silence they paced on a little way into the green shade. Then she
      paused and faced him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You said something of a message, sir,&rdquo; she reminded him, thus betraying
      some of her impatience.
    </p>
    <p>
      He fingered the ringlets of his periwig, a little embarrassed how to
      deliver himself, considering how he should begin. &ldquo;He desired me,&rdquo; he said
      at last, &ldquo;to give you a message that should prove to you that there is
      still something left in him of the unfortunate gentleman that... that..,
      for which once you knew him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is not now necessary,&rdquo; said she very gravely. He misunderstood her,
      of course, knowing nothing of the enlightenment that yesterday had come to
      her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think..., nay, I know that you do him an injustice,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her hazel eyes continued to regard him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you will deliver the message, it may enable me to judge.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      To him, this was confusing. He did not immediately answer. He found that
      he had not sufficiently considered the terms he should employ, and the
      matter, after all, was of an exceeding delicacy, demanding delicate
      handling. It was not so much that he was concerned to deliver a message as
      to render it a vehicle by which to plead his own cause. Lord Julian, well
      versed in the lore of womankind and usually at his ease with ladies of the
      beau-monde, found himself oddly constrained before this frank and
      unsophisticated niece of a colonial planter.
    </p>
    <p>
      They moved on in silence and as if by common consent towards the brilliant
      sunshine where the pergola was intersected by the avenue leading upwards
      to the house. Across this patch of light fluttered a gorgeous butterfly,
      that was like black and scarlet velvet and large as a man&rsquo;s hand. His
      lordship&rsquo;s brooding eyes followed it out of sight before he answered.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is not easy. Stab me, it is not. He was a man who deserved well. And
      amongst us we have marred his chances: your uncle, because he could not
      forget his rancour; you, because... because having told him that in the
      King&rsquo;s service he would find his redemption of what was past, you would
      not afterwards admit to him that he was so redeemed. And this, although
      concern to rescue you was the chief motive of his embracing that same
      service.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She had turned her shoulder to him so that he should not see her face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I know. I know now,&rdquo; she said softly. Then after a pause she added the
      question: &ldquo;And you? What part has your lordship had in this&mdash;that you
      should incriminate yourself with us?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My part?&rdquo; Again he hesitated, then plunged recklessly on, as men do when
      determined to perform a thing they fear. &ldquo;If I understood him aright, if
      he understood aright, himself, my part, though entirely passive, was none
      the less effective. I implore you to observe that I but report his own
      words. I say nothing for myself.&rdquo; His lordship&rsquo;s unusual nervousness was
      steadily increasing. &ldquo;He thought, then&mdash;so he told me&mdash;that my
      presence here had contributed to his inability to redeem himself in your
      sight; and unless he were so redeemed, then was redemption nothing.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She faced him fully, a frown of perplexity bringing her brows together
      above her troubled eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He thought that you had contributed?&rdquo; she echoed. It was clear she asked
      for enlightenment. He plunged on to afford it her, his glance a little
      scared, his cheeks flushing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye, and he said so in terms which told me something that I hope above
      all things, and yet dare not believe, for, God knows, I am no coxcomb,
      Arabella. He said... but first let me tell you how I was placed. I had
      gone aboard his ship to demand the instant surrender of your uncle whom he
      held captive. He laughed at me. Colonel Bishop should be a hostage for his
      safety. By rashly venturing aboard his ship, I afforded him in my own
      person yet another hostage as valuable at least as Colonel Bishop. Yet he
      bade me depart; not from the fear of consequences, for he is above fear,
      nor from any personal esteem for me whom he confessed that he had come to
      find detestable; and this for the very reason that made him concerned for
      my safety.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I do not understand,&rdquo; she said, as he paused. &ldquo;Is not that a
      contradiction in itself?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It seems so only. The fact is, Arabella, this unfortunate man has the...
      the temerity to love you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She cried out at that, and clutched her breast whose calm was suddenly
      disturbed. Her eyes dilated as she stared at him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I... I&rsquo;ve startled you,&rdquo; said he, with concern. &ldquo;I feared I should. But
      it was necessary so that you may understand.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Go on,&rdquo; she bade him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, then: he saw in me one who made it impossible that he should win
      you&mdash;so he said. Therefore he could with satisfaction have killed me.
      But because my death might cause you pain, because your happiness was the
      thing that above all things he desired, he surrendered that part of his
      guarantee of safety which my person afforded him. If his departure should
      be hindered, and I should lose my life in what might follow, there was the
      risk that... that you might mourn me. That risk he would not take. Him you
      deemed a thief and a pirate, he said, and added that&mdash;I am giving you
      his own words always&mdash;if in choosing between us two, your choice, as
      he believed, would fall on me, then were you in his opinion choosing
      wisely. Because of that he bade me leave his ship, and had me put ashore.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked at him with eyes that were aswim with tears. He took a step
      towards her, a catch in his breath, his hand held out.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Was he right, Arabella? My life&rsquo;s happiness hangs upon your answer.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But she continued silently to regard him with those tear-laden eyes,
      without speaking, and until she spoke he dared not advance farther.
    </p>
    <p>
      A doubt, a tormenting doubt beset him. When presently she spoke, he saw
      how true had been the instinct of which that doubt was born, for her words
      revealed the fact that of all that he had said the only thing that had
      touched her consciousness and absorbed it from all other considerations
      was Blood&rsquo;s conduct as it regarded herself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He said that!&rdquo; she cried. &ldquo;He did that! Oh!&rdquo; She turned away, and through
      the slender, clustering trunks of the bordering orange-trees she looked
      out across the glittering waters of the great harbour to the distant
      hills. Thus for a little while, my lord standing stiffly, fearfully,
      waiting for fuller revelation of her mind. At last it came, slowly,
      deliberately, in a voice that at moments was half suffocated. &ldquo;Last night
      when my uncle displayed his rancour and his evil rage, it began to be
      borne in upon me that such vindictiveness can belong only to those who
      have wronged. It is the frenzy into which men whip themselves to justify
      an evil passion. I must have known then, if I had not already learnt it,
      that I had been too credulous of all the unspeakable things attributed to
      Peter Blood. Yesterday I had his own explanation of that tale of Levasseur
      that you heard in St. Nicholas. And now this... this but gives me
      confirmation of his truth and worth. To a scoundrel such as I was too
      readily brought to believe him, the act of which you have just told me
      would have been impossible.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is my own opinion,&rdquo; said his lordship gently.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It must be. But even if it were not, that would now weigh for nothing.
      What weighs&mdash;oh, so heavily and bitterly&mdash;is the thought that
      but for the words in which yesterday I repelled him, he might have been
      saved. If only I could have spoken to him again before he went! I waited
      for him; but my uncle was with him, and I had no suspicion that he was
      going away again. And now he is lost&mdash;back at his outlawry and
      piracy, in which ultimately he will be taken and destroyed. And the fault
      is mine&mdash;mine!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What are you saying? The only agents were your uncle&rsquo;s hostility and his
      own obstinacy which would not study compromise. You must not blame
      yourself for anything.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She swung to him with some impatience, her eyes aswim in tears. &ldquo;You can
      say that, and in spite of his message, which in itself tells how much I
      was to blame! It was my treatment of him, the epithets I cast at him that
      drove him. So much he has told you. I know it to be true.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have no cause for shame,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;As for your sorrow&mdash;why, if
      it will afford you solace&mdash;you may still count on me to do what man
      can to rescue him from this position.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She caught her breath.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You will do that!&rdquo; she cried with sudden eager hopefulness. &ldquo;You
      promise?&rdquo; She held out her hand to him impulsively. He took it in both his
      own.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I promise,&rdquo; he answered her. And then, retaining still the hand she had
      surrendered to him&mdash;&ldquo;Arabella,&rdquo; he said very gently, &ldquo;there is still
      this other matter upon which you have not answered me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This other matter?&rdquo; Was he mad, she wondered.
    </p>
    <p>
      Could any other matter signify in such a moment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This matter that concerns myself; and all my future, oh, so very closely.
      This thing that Blood believed, that prompted him..., that ... that you
      are not indifferent to me.&rdquo; He saw the fair face change colour and grow
      troubled once more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Indifferent to you?&rdquo; said she. &ldquo;Why, no. We have been good friends; we
      shall continue so, I hope, my lord.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Friends! Good friends?&rdquo; He was between dismay and bitterness. &ldquo;It is not
      your friendship only that I ask, Arabella. You heard what I said, what I
      reported. You will not say that Peter Blood was wrong?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Gently she sought to disengage her hand, the trouble in her face
      increasing. A moment he resisted; then, realizing what he did, he set her
      free.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Arabella!&rdquo; he cried on a note of sudden pain.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have friendship for you, my lord. But only friendship.&rdquo; His castle of
      hopes came clattering down about him, leaving him a little stunned. As he
      had said, he was no coxcomb. Yet there was something that he did not
      understand. She confessed to friendship, and it was in his power to offer
      her a great position, one to which she, a colonial planter&rsquo;s niece,
      however wealthy, could never have aspired even in her dreams. This she
      rejected, yet spoke of friendship. Peter Blood had been mistaken, then.
      How far had he been mistaken? Had he been as mistaken in her feelings
      towards himself as he obviously was in her feelings towards his lordship?
      In that case ... His reflections broke short. To speculate was to wound
      himself in vain. He must know. Therefore he asked her with grim frankness:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it Peter Blood?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Peter Blood?&rdquo; she echoed. At first she did not understand the purport of
      his question. When understanding came, a flush suffused her face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I do not know,&rdquo; she said, faltering a little.
    </p>
    <p>
      This was hardly a truthful answer. For, as if an obscuring veil had
      suddenly been rent that morning, she was permitted at last to see Peter
      Blood in his true relations to other men, and that sight, vouchsafed her
      twenty-four hours too late, filled her with pity and regret and yearning.
    </p>
    <p>
      Lord Julian knew enough of women to be left in no further doubt. He bowed
      his head so that she might not see the anger in his eyes, for as a man of
      honour he took shame in that anger which as a human being he could not
      repress.
    </p>
    <p>
      And because Nature in him was stronger&mdash;as it is in most of us&mdash;than
      training, Lord Julian from that moment began, almost in spite of himself,
      to practise something that was akin to villainy. I regret to chronicle it
      of one for whom&mdash;if I have done him any sort of justice&mdash;you
      should have been conceiving some esteem. But the truth is that the
      lingering remains of the regard in which he had held Peter Blood were
      choked by the desire to supplant and destroy a rival. He had passed his
      word to Arabella that he would use his powerful influence on Blood&rsquo;s
      behalf. I deplore to set it down that not only did he forget his pledge,
      but secretly set himself to aid and abet Arabella&rsquo;s uncle in the plans he
      laid for the trapping and undoing of the buccaneer. He might reasonably
      have urged&mdash;had he been taxed with it&mdash;that he conducted himself
      precisely as his duty demanded. But to that he might have been answered
      that duty with him was but the slave of jealousy in this.
    </p>
    <p>
      When the Jamaica fleet put to sea some few days later, Lord Julian sailed
      with Colonel Bishop in Vice-Admiral Craufurd&rsquo;s flagship. Not only was
      there no need for either of them to go, but the Deputy-Governor&rsquo;s duties
      actually demanded that he should remain ashore, whilst Lord Julian, as we
      know, was a useless man aboard a ship. Yet both set out to hunt Captain
      Blood, each making of his duty a pretext for the satisfaction of personal
      aims; and that common purpose became a link between them, binding them in
      a sort of friendship that must otherwise have been impossible between men
      so dissimilar in breeding and in aspirations.
    </p>
    <p>
      The hunt was up. They cruised awhile off Hispaniola, watching the Windward
      Passage, and suffering the discomforts of the rainy season which had now
      set in. But they cruised in vain, and after a month of it, returned
      empty-handed to Port Royal, there to find awaiting them the most
      disquieting news from the Old World.
    </p>
    <p>
      The megalomania of Louis XIV had set Europe in a blaze of war. The French
      legionaries were ravaging the Rhine provinces, and Spain had joined the
      nations leagued to defend themselves from the wild ambitions of the King
      of France. And there was worse than this: there were rumours of civil war
      in England, where the people had grown weary of the bigoted tyranny of
      King James. It was reported that William of Orange had been invited to
      come over.
    </p>
    <p>
      Weeks passed, and every ship from home brought additional news. William
      had crossed to England, and in March of that year 1689 they learnt in
      Jamaica that he had accepted the crown and that James had thrown himself
      into the arms of France for rehabilitation.
    </p>
    <p>
      To a kinsman of Sunderland&rsquo;s this was disquieting news, indeed. It was
      followed by letters from King William&rsquo;s Secretary of State informing
      Colonel Bishop that there was war with France, and that in view of its
      effect upon the Colonies a Governor-General was coming out to the West
      Indies in the person of Lord Willoughby, and that with him came a squadron
      under the command of Admiral van der Kuylen to reenforce the Jamaica fleet
      against eventualities.
    </p>
    <p>
      Bishop realized that this must mean the end of his supreme authority, even
      though he should continue in Port Royal as Deputy-Governor. Lord Julian,
      in the lack of direct news to himself, did not know what it might mean to
      him. But he had been very close and confidential with Colonel Bishop
      regarding his hopes of Arabella, and Colonel Bishop more than ever, now
      that political events put him in danger of being retired, was anxious to
      enjoy the advantages of having a man of Lord Julian&rsquo;s eminence for his
      relative.
    </p>
    <p>
      They came to a complete understanding in the matter, and Lord Julian
      disclosed all that he knew.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is one obstacle in our path,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;Captain Blood. The girl is
      in love with him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;re surely mad!&rdquo; cried Bishop, when he had recovered speech.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are justified of the assumption,&rdquo; said his lordship dolefully. &ldquo;But I
      happen to be sane, and to speak with knowledge.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With knowledge?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Arabella herself has confessed it to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The brazen baggage! By God, I&rsquo;ll bring her to her senses.&rdquo; It was the
      slave-driver speaking, the man who governed with a whip.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be a fool, Bishop.&rdquo; His lordship&rsquo;s contempt did more than any
      argument to calm the Colonel. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s not the way with a girl of
      Arabella&rsquo;s spirit. Unless you want to wreck my chances for all time,
      you&rsquo;ll hold your tongue, and not interfere at all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not interfere? My God, what, then?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Listen, man. She has a constant mind. I don&rsquo;t think you know your niece.
      As long as Blood lives, she will wait for him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then with Blood dead, perhaps she will come to her silly senses.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now you begin to show intelligence,&rdquo; Lord Julian commended him. &ldquo;That is
      the first essential step.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And here is our chance to take it.&rdquo; Bishop warmed to a sort of
      enthusiasm. &ldquo;This war with France removes all restrictions in the matter
      of Tortuga. We are free to invest it in the service of the Crown. A
      victory there and we establish ourselves in the favour of this new
      government.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah!&rdquo; said Lord Julian, and he pulled thoughtfully at his lip.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see that you understand,&rdquo; Bishop laughed coarsely. &ldquo;Two birds with one
      stone, eh? We&rsquo;ll hunt this rascal in his lair, right under the beard of
      the King of France, and we&rsquo;ll take him this time, if we reduce Tortuga to
      a heap of ashes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      On that expedition they sailed two days later&mdash;which would be some
      three months after Blood&rsquo;s departure&mdash;taking every ship of the fleet,
      and several lesser vessels as auxiliaries. To Arabella and the world in
      general it was given out that they were going to raid French Hispaniola,
      which was really the only expedition that could have afforded Colonel
      Bishop any sort of justification for leaving Jamaica at all at such a
      time. His sense of duty, indeed, should have kept him fast in Port Royal;
      but his sense of duty was smothered in hatred&mdash;that most fruitless
      and corruptive of all the emotions. In the great cabin of Vice-Admiral
      Craufurd&rsquo;s flagship, the Imperator, the Deputy-Governor got drunk that
      night to celebrate his conviction that the sands of Captain Blood&rsquo;s career
      were running out.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0025" id="link2HCH0025">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XXV. THE SERVICE OF KING LOUIS
    </h2>
    <p>
      Meanwhile, some three months before Colonel Bishop set out to reduce
      Tortuga, Captain Blood, bearing hell in his soul, had blown into its
      rockbound harbour ahead of the winter gales, and two days ahead of the
      frigate in which Wolverstone had sailed from Port Royal a day before him.
    </p>
    <p>
      In that snug anchorage he found his fleet awaiting him&mdash;the four
      ships which had been separated in that gale off the Lesser Antilles, and
      some seven hundred men composing their crews. Because they had been
      beginning to grow anxious on his behalf, they gave him the greater
      welcome. Guns were fired in his honour and the ships made themselves gay
      with bunting. The town, aroused by all this noise in the harbour, emptied
      itself upon the jetty, and a vast crowd of men and women of all creeds and
      nationalities collected there to be present at the coming ashore of the
      great buccaneer.
    </p>
    <p>
      Ashore he went, probably for no other reason than to obey the general
      expectation. His mood was taciturn; his face grim and sneering. Let
      Wolverstone arrive, as presently he would, and all this hero-worship would
      turn to execration.
    </p>
    <p>
      His captains, Hagthorpe, Christian, and Yberville, were on the jetty to
      receive him, and with them were some hundreds of his buccaneers. He cut
      short their greetings, and when they plagued him with questions of where
      he had tarried, he bade them await the coming of Wolverstone, who would
      satisfy their curiosity to a surfeit. On that he shook them off, and
      shouldered his way through that heterogeneous throng that was composed of
      bustling traders of several nations&mdash;English, French, and Dutch&mdash;of
      planters and of seamen of various degrees, of buccaneers who were
      fruit-selling half-castes, negro slaves, some doll-tearsheets and
      dunghill-queans from the Old World, and all the other types of the human
      family that converted the quays of Cayona into a disreputable image of
      Babel.
    </p>
    <p>
      Winning clear at last, and after difficulties, Captain Blood took his way
      alone to the fine house of M. d&rsquo;Ogeron, there to pay his respects to his
      friends, the Governor and the Governor&rsquo;s family.
    </p>
    <p>
      At first the buccaneers jumped to the conclusion that Wolverstone was
      following with some rare prize of war, but gradually from the reduced crew
      of the Arabella a very different tale leaked out to stem their
      satisfaction and convert it into perplexity. Partly out of loyalty to
      their captain, partly because they perceived that if he was guilty of
      defection they were guilty with him, and partly because being simple,
      sturdy men of their hands, they were themselves in the main a little
      confused as to what really had happened, the crew of the Arabella
      practised reticence with their brethren in Tortuga during those two days
      before Wolverstone&rsquo;s arrival. But they were not reticent enough to prevent
      the circulation of certain uneasy rumours and extravagant stories of
      discreditable adventures&mdash;discreditable, that is, from the
      buccaneering point of view&mdash;of which Captain Blood had been guilty.
    </p>
    <p>
      But that Wolverstone came when he did, it is possible that there would
      have been an explosion. When, however, the Old Wolf cast anchor in the bay
      two days later, it was to him all turned for the explanation they were
      about to demand of Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now Wolverstone had only one eye; but he saw a deal more with that one eye
      than do most men with two; and despite his grizzled head&mdash;so
      picturesquely swathed in a green and scarlet turban&mdash;he had the sound
      heart of a boy, and in that heart much love for Peter Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      The sight of the Arabella at anchor in the bay had at first amazed him as
      he sailed round the rocky headland that bore the fort. He rubbed his
      single eye clear of any deceiving film and looked again. Still he could
      not believe what it saw. And then a voice at his elbow&mdash;the voice of
      Dyke, who had elected to sail with him&mdash;assured him that he was not
      singular in his bewilderment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the name of Heaven, is that the Arabella or is it the ghost of her?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Old Wolf rolled his single eye over Dyke, and opened his mouth to
      speak. Then he closed it again without having spoken; closed it tightly.
      He had a great gift of caution, especially in matters that he did not
      understand. That this was the Arabella he could no longer doubt. That
      being so, he must think before he spoke. What the devil should the
      Arabella be doing here, when he had left her in Jamaica? And was Captain
      Blood aboard and in command, or had the remainder of her hands made off
      with her, leaving the Captain in Port Royal?
    </p>
    <p>
      Dyke repeated his question. This time Wolverstone answered him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;ve two eyes to see with, and ye ask me, who&rsquo;s only got one, what it is
      ye see!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But I see the Arabella.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of course, since there she rides. What else was you expecting?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Expecting?&rdquo; Dyke stared at him, open-mouthed. &ldquo;Was you expecting to find
      the Arabella here?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Wolverstone looked him over in contempt, then laughed and spoke loud
      enough to be heard by all around him. &ldquo;Of course. What else?&rdquo; And he
      laughed again, a laugh that seemed to Dyke to be calling him a fool. On
      that Wolverstone turned to give his attention to the operation of
      anchoring.
    </p>
    <p>
      Anon when ashore he was beset by questioning buccaneers, it was from their
      very questions that he gathered exactly how matters stood, and perceived
      that either from lack of courage or other motive Blood, himself, had
      refused to render any account of his doings since the Arabella had
      separated from her sister ships. Wolverstone congratulated himself upon
      the discretion he had used with Dyke.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The Captain was ever a modest man,&rdquo; he explained to Hagthorpe and those
      others who came crowding round him. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not his way to be sounding his
      own praises. Why, it was like this. We fell in with old Don Miguel, and
      when we&rsquo;d scuttled him we took aboard a London pimp sent out by the
      Secretary of State to offer the Captain the King&rsquo;s commission if so be
      him&rsquo;d quit piracy and be o&rsquo; good behaviour. The Captain damned his soul to
      hell for answer. And then we fell in wi&rsquo; the Jamaica fleet and that grey
      old devil Bishop in command, and there was a sure end to Captain Blood and
      to every mother&rsquo;s son of us all. So I goes to him, and &lsquo;accept this poxy
      commission,&rsquo; says I; &lsquo;turn King&rsquo;s man and save your neck and ours.&rsquo; He
      took me at my word, and the London pimp gave him the King&rsquo;s commission on
      the spot, and Bishop all but choked hisself with rage when he was told of
      it. But happened it had, and he was forced to swallow it. We were King&rsquo;s
      men all, and so into Port Royal we sailed along o&rsquo; Bishop. But Bishop
      didn&rsquo;t trust us. He knew too much. But for his lordship, the fellow from
      London, he&rsquo;d ha&rsquo; hanged the Captain, King&rsquo;s commission and all. Blood
      would ha&rsquo; slipped out o&rsquo; Port Royal again that same night. But that hound
      Bishop had passed the word, and the fort kept a sharp lookout. In the end,
      though it took a fortnight, Blood bubbled him. He sent me and most o&rsquo; the
      men off in a frigate that I bought for the voyage. His game&mdash;as he&rsquo;d
      secretly told me&mdash;was to follow and give chase. Whether that&rsquo;s the
      game he played or not I can&rsquo;t tell ye; but here he is afore me as I&rsquo;d
      expected he would be.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was a great historian lost in Wolverstone. He had the right
      imagination that knows just how far it is safe to stray from the truth and
      just how far to colour it so as to change its shape for his own purposes.
    </p>
    <p>
      Having delivered himself of his decoction of fact and falsehood, and
      thereby added one more to the exploits of Peter Blood, he enquired where
      the Captain might be found. Being informed that he kept his ship,
      Wolverstone stepped into a boat and went aboard, to report himself, as he
      put it.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the great cabin of the Arabella he found Peter Blood alone and very far
      gone in drink&mdash;a condition in which no man ever before remembered to
      have seen him. As Wolverstone came in, the Captain raised bloodshot eyes
      to consider him. A moment they sharpened in their gaze as he brought his
      visitor into focus. Then he laughed, a loose, idiot laugh, that yet
      somehow was half a sneer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah! The Old Wolf!&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;Got here at last, eh? And whatcher gonnerdo
      wi&rsquo; me, eh?&rdquo; He hiccoughed resoundingly, and sagged back loosely in his
      chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      Old Wolverstone stared at him in sombre silence. He had looked with
      untroubled eye upon many a hell of devilment in his time, but the sight of
      Captain Blood in this condition filled him with sudden grief. To express
      it he loosed an oath. It was his only expression for emotion of all kinds.
      Then he rolled forward, and dropped into a chair at the table, facing the
      Captain.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My God, Peter, what&rsquo;s this?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Rum,&rdquo; said Peter. &ldquo;Rum, from Jamaica.&rdquo; He pushed bottle and glass towards
      Wolverstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      Wolverstone disregarded them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m asking you what ails you?&rdquo; he bawled.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Rum,&rdquo; said Captain Blood again, and smiled. &ldquo;Jus&rsquo; rum. I answer all your
      queshons. Why donjerr answer mine? Whatcher gonerdo wi&rsquo; me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve done it,&rdquo; said Wolverstone. &ldquo;Thank God, ye had the sense to hold
      your tongue till I came. Are ye sober enough to understand me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Drunk or sober, allus &lsquo;derstand you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then listen.&rdquo; And out came the tale that Wolverstone had told. The
      Captain steadied himself to grasp it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;ll do as well asertruth,&rdquo; said he when Wolverstone had finished.
      &ldquo;And... oh, no marrer! Much obliged to ye, Old Wolf&mdash;faithful Old
      Wolf! But was it worthertrouble? I&rsquo;m norrer pirate now; never a pirate
      again. &lsquo;S finished&rsquo;&rdquo; He banged the table, his eyes suddenly fierce.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll come and talk to you again when there&rsquo;s less rum in your wits,&rdquo; said
      Wolverstone, rising. &ldquo;Meanwhile ye&rsquo;ll please to remember the tale I&rsquo;ve
      told, and say nothing that&rsquo;ll make me out a liar. They all believes me,
      even the men as sailed wi&rsquo; me from Port Royal. I&rsquo;ve made &lsquo;em. If they
      thought as how you&rsquo;d taken the King&rsquo;s commission in earnest, and for the
      purpose o&rsquo; doing as Morgan did, ye guess what would follow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hell would follow,&rdquo; said the Captain. &ldquo;An&rsquo; tha&rsquo;s all I&rsquo;m fit for.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;re maudlin,&rdquo; Wolverstone growled. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll talk again to-morrow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They did; but to little purpose, either that day or on any day thereafter
      while the rains&mdash;which set in that night&mdash;endured. Soon the
      shrewd Wolverstone discovered that rum was not what ailed Blood. Rum was
      in itself an effect, and not by any means the cause of the Captain&rsquo;s
      listless apathy. There was a canker eating at his heart, and the Old Wolf
      knew enough to make a shrewd guess of its nature. He cursed all things
      that daggled petticoats, and, knowing his world, waited for the sickness
      to pass.
    </p>
    <p>
      But it did not pass. When Blood was not dicing or drinking in the taverns
      of Tortuga, keeping company that in his saner days he had loathed, he was
      shut up in his cabin aboard the Arabella, alone and uncommunicative. His
      friends at Government House, bewildered at this change in him, sought to
      reclaim him. Mademoiselle d&rsquo;Ogeron, particularly distressed, sent him
      almost daily invitations, to few of which he responded.
    </p>
    <p>
      Later, as the rainy season approached its end, he was sought by his
      captains with proposals of remunerative raids on Spanish settlements. But
      to all he manifested an indifference which, as the weeks passed and the
      weather became settled, begot first impatience and then exasperation.
    </p>
    <p>
      Christian, who commanded the Clotho, came storming to him one day,
      upbraiding him for his inaction, and demanding that he should take order
      about what was to do.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Go to the devil!&rdquo; Blood said, when he had heard him out. Christian
      departed fuming, and on the morrow the Clotho weighed anchor and sailed
      away, setting an example of desertion from which the loyalty of Blood&rsquo;s
      other captains would soon be unable to restrain their men.
    </p>
    <p>
      Sometimes Blood asked himself why had he come back to Tortuga at all. Held
      fast in bondage by the thought of Arabella and her scorn of him for a
      thief and a pirate, he had sworn that he had done with buccaneering. Why,
      then, was he here? That question he would answer with another: Where else
      was he to go? Neither backward nor forward could he move, it seemed.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was degenerating visibly, under the eyes of all. He had entirely lost
      the almost foppish concern for his appearance, and was grown careless and
      slovenly in his dress. He allowed a black beard to grow on cheeks that had
      ever been so carefully shaven; and the long, thick black hair, once so
      sedulously curled, hung now in a lank, untidy mane about a face that was
      changing from its vigorous swarthiness to an unhealthy sallow, whilst the
      blue eyes, that had been so vivid and compelling, were now dull and
      lacklustre.
    </p>
    <p>
      Wolverstone, the only one who held the clue to this degeneration, ventured
      once&mdash;and once only&mdash;to beard him frankly about it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lord, Peter! Is there never to be no end to this?&rdquo; the giant had growled.
      &ldquo;Will you spend your days moping and swilling &lsquo;cause a white-faced ninny
      in Port Royal&rsquo;ll have none o&rsquo; ye? &lsquo;Sblood and &lsquo;ounds! If ye wants the
      wench, why the plague doesn&rsquo;t ye go and fetch her?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The blue eyes glared at him from under the jet-black eyebrows, and
      something of their old fire began to kindle in them. But Wolverstone went
      on heedlessly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll be nice wi&rsquo; a wench as long as niceness be the key to her favour.
      But sink me now if I&rsquo;d rot myself in rum on account of anything that wears
      a petticoat. That&rsquo;s not the Old Wolf&rsquo;s way. If there&rsquo;s no other
      expedition&rsquo;ll tempt you, why not Port Royal? What a plague do it matter if
      it is an English settlement? It&rsquo;s commanded by Colonel Bishop, and there&rsquo;s
      no lack of rascals in your company&rsquo;d follow you to hell if it meant
      getting Colonel Bishop by the throat. It could be done, I tell you. We&rsquo;ve
      but to spy the chance when the Jamaica fleet is away. There&rsquo;s enough
      plunder in the town to tempt the lads, and there&rsquo;s the wench for you.
      Shall I sound them on &lsquo;t?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood was on his feet, his eyes blazing, his livid face distorted. &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;ll
      leave my cabin this minute, so ye will, or, by Heaven, it&rsquo;s your corpse&rsquo;ll
      be carried out of it. Ye mangy hound, d&rsquo;ye dare come to me with such
      proposals?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He fell to cursing his faithful officer with a virulence the like of which
      he had never yet been known to use. And Wolverstone, in terror before that
      fury, went out without another word. The subject was not raised again, and
      Captain Blood was left to his idle abstraction.
    </p>
    <p>
      But at last, as his buccaneers were growing desperate, something happened,
      brought about by the Captain&rsquo;s friend M. d&rsquo;Ogeron. One sunny morning the
      Governor of Tortuga came aboard the Arabella, accompanied by a chubby
      little gentleman, amiable of countenance, amiable and self-sufficient of
      manner.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My Captain,&rdquo; M. d&rsquo;Ogeron delivered himself, &ldquo;I bring you M. de Cussy, the
      Governor of French Hispaniola, who desires a word with you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Out of consideration for his friend, Captain Blood pulled the pipe from
      his mouth, shook some of the rum out of his wits, and rose and made a leg
      to M. de Cussy.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Serviteur!&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      M. de Cussy returned the bow and accepted a seat on the locker under the
      stem windows.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have a good force here under your command, my Captain,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Some eight hundred men.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And I understand they grow restive in idleness.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They may go to the devil when they please.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      M. de Cussy took snuff delicately. &ldquo;I have something better than that to
      propose,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Propose it, then,&rdquo; said Blood, without interest.
    </p>
    <p>
      M. de Cussy looked at M. d&rsquo;Ogeron, and raised his eyebrows a little. He
      did not find Captain Blood encouraging. But M. d&rsquo;Ogeron nodded vigorously
      with pursed lips, and the Governor of Hispaniola propounded his business.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;News has reached us from France that there is war with Spain.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is news, is it?&rdquo; growled Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am speaking officially, my Captain. I am not alluding to unofficial
      skirmishes, and unofficial predatory measures which we have condoned out
      here. There is war&mdash;formally war&mdash;between France and Spain in
      Europe. It is the intention of France that this war shall be carried into
      the New World. A fleet is coming out from Brest under the command of M. le
      Baron de Rivarol for that purpose. I have letters from him desiring me to
      equip a supplementary squadron and raise a body of not less than a
      thousand men to reenforce him on his arrival. What I have come to propose
      to you, my Captain, at the suggestion of our good friend M. d&rsquo;Ogeron, is,
      in brief, that you enroll your ships and your force under M. de Rivarol&rsquo;s
      flag.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood looked at him with a faint kindling of interest. &ldquo;You are offering
      to take us into the French service?&rdquo; he asked. &ldquo;On what terms, monsieur?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With the rank of Capitaine de Vaisseau for yourself, and suitable ranks
      for the officers serving under you. You will enjoy the pay of that rank,
      and you will be entitled, together with your men, to one-tenth share in
      all prizes taken.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My men will hardly account it generous. They will tell you that they can
      sail out of here to-morrow, disembowel a Spanish settlement, and keep the
      whole of the plunder.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah, yes, but with the risks attaching to acts of piracy. With us your
      position will be regular and official, and considering the powerful fleet
      by which M. de Rivarol is backed, the enterprises to be undertaken will be
      on a much vaster scale than anything you could attempt on your own
      account. So that the one tenth in this case may be equal to more than the
      whole in the other.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood considered. This, after all, was not piracy that was being
      proposed. It was honourable employment in the service of the King of
      France.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will consult my officers,&rdquo; he said; and he sent for them.
    </p>
    <p>
      They came and the matter was laid before them by M. de Cussy himself.
      Hagthorpe announced at once that the proposal was opportune. The men were
      grumbling at their protracted inaction, and would no doubt be ready to
      accept the service which M. de Cussy offered on behalf of France.
      Hagthorpe looked at Blood as he spoke. Blood nodded gloomy agreement.
      Emboldened by this, they went on to discuss the terms. Yberville, the
      young French filibuster, had the honour to point out to M. de Cussy that
      the share offered was too small. For one fifth of the prizes, the officers
      would answer for their men; not for less.
    </p>
    <p>
      M. de Cussy was distressed. He had his instructions. It was taking a deal
      upon himself to exceed them. The buccaneers were firm. Unless M. de Cussy
      could make it one fifth there was no more to be said. M. de Cussy finally
      consenting to exceed his instructions, the articles were drawn up and
      signed that very day. The buccaneers were to be at Petit Goave by the end
      of January, when M. de Rivarol had announced that he might be expected.
    </p>
    <p>
      After that followed days of activity in Tortuga, refitting the ships,
      boucanning meat, laying in stores. In these matters which once would have
      engaged all Captain Blood&rsquo;s attention, he now took no part. He continued
      listless and aloof. If he had given his consent to the undertaking, or,
      rather, allowed himself to be swept into it by the wishes of his officers&mdash;it
      was only because the service offered was of a regular and honourable kind,
      nowise connected with piracy, with which he swore in his heart that he had
      done for ever. But his consent remained passive. The service entered awoke
      no zeal in him. He was perfectly indifferent&mdash;as he told Hagthorpe,
      who ventured once to offer a remonstrance&mdash;whether they went to Petit
      Goave or to Hades, and whether they entered the service of Louis XIV or of
      Satan.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0026" id="link2HCH0026">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XXVI. M. de RIVAROL
    </h2>
    <p>
      Captain Blood was still in that disgruntled mood when he sailed from
      Tortuga, and still in that mood when he came to his moorings in the bay of
      Petit Goave. In that same mood he greeted M. le Baron de Rivarol when this
      nobleman with his fleet of five men-of-war at last dropped anchor
      alongside the buccaneer ships, in the middle of February. The Frenchman
      had been six weeks on the voyage, he announced, delayed by unfavourable
      weather.
    </p>
    <p>
      Summoned to wait on him, Captain Blood repaired to the Castle of Petit
      Goave, where the interview was to take place. The Baron, a tall,
      hawk-faced man of forty, very cold and distant of manner, measured Captain
      Blood with an eye of obvious disapproval. Of Hagthorpe, Yberville, and
      Wolverstone who stood ranged behind their captain, he took no heed
      whatever. M. de Cussy offered Captain Blood a chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A moment, M. de Cussy. I do not think M. le Baron has observed that I am
      not alone. Let me present to you, sir, my companions: Captain Hagthorpe of
      the Elizabeth, Captain Wolverstone of the Atropos, and Captain Yberville
      of the Lachesis.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Baron stared hard and haughtily at Captain Blood, then very distantly
      and barely perceptibly inclined his head to each of the other three. His
      manner implied plainly that he despised them and that he desired them at
      once to understand it. It had a curious effect upon Captain Blood. It
      awoke the devil in him, and it awoke at the same time his self-respect
      which of late had been slumbering. A sudden shame of his disordered,
      ill-kempt appearance made him perhaps the more defiant. There was almost a
      significance in the way he hitched his sword-belt round, so that the
      wrought hilt of his very serviceable rapier was brought into fuller view.
      He waved his captains to the chairs that stood about.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Draw up to the table, lads. We are keeping the Baron waiting.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They obeyed him, Wolverstone with a grin that was full of understanding.
      Haughtier grew the stare of M. de Rivarol. To sit at table with these
      bandits placed him upon what he accounted a dishonouring equality. It had
      been his notion that&mdash;with the possible exception of Captain Blood&mdash;they
      should take his instructions standing, as became men of their quality in
      the presence of a man of his. He did the only thing remaining to mark a
      distinction between himself and them. He put on his hat.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;re very wise now,&rdquo; said Blood amiably. &ldquo;I feel the draught myself.&rdquo;
       And he covered himself with his plumed castor.
    </p>
    <p>
      M. de Rivarol changed colour. He quivered visibly with anger, and was a
      moment controlling himself before venturing to speak. M. de Cussy was
      obviously very ill at ease.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sir,&rdquo; said the Baron frostily, &ldquo;you compel me to remind you that the rank
      you hold is that of Capitaine de Vaisseau, and that you are in the
      presence of the General of the Armies of France by Sea and Land in America.
      You compel me to remind you further that there is a deference due from
      your rank to mine.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am happy to assure you,&rdquo; said Captain Blood, &ldquo;that the reminder is
      unnecessary. I am by way of accounting myself a gentleman, little though I
      may look like one at present; and I should not account myself that were I
      capable of anything but deference to those whom nature or fortune may have
      placed above me, or to those who being placed beneath me in rank may
      labour under a disability to resent my lack of it.&rdquo; It was a neatly
      intangible rebuke. M. de Rivarol bit his lip. Captain Blood swept on
      without giving him time to reply: &ldquo;Thus much being clear, shall we come to
      business?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      M. de Rivarol&rsquo;s hard eyes considered him a moment. &ldquo;Perhaps it will be
      best,&rdquo; said he. He took up a paper. &ldquo;I have here a copy of the articles
      into which you entered with M. de Cussy. Before going further, I have to
      observe that M. de Cussy has exceeded his instructions in admitting you to
      one fifth of the prizes taken. His authority did not warrant his going
      beyond one tenth.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is a matter between yourself and M. de Cussy, my General.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, no. It is a matter between myself and you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your pardon, my General. The articles are signed. So far as we are
      concerned, the matter is closed. Also out of regard for M. de Cussy, we
      should not desire to be witnesses of the rebukes you may consider that he
      deserves.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What I may have to say to M. de Cussy is no concern of yours.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is what I am telling you, my General.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But&mdash;nom de Dieu!&mdash;it is your concern, I suppose, that we
      cannot award you more than one tenth share.&rdquo; M. de Rivarol smote the table
      in exasperation. This pirate was too infernally skillful a fencer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are quite certain of that, M. le Baron&mdash;that you cannot?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am quite certain that I will not.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood shrugged, and looked down his nose. &ldquo;In that case,&rdquo; said he,
      &ldquo;it but remains for me to present my little account for our disbursement,
      and to fix the sum at which we should be compensated for our loss of time
      and derangement in coming hither. That settled, we can part friends, M. le
      Baron. No harm has been done.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What the devil do you mean?&rdquo; The Baron was on his feet, leaning forward
      across the table.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it possible that I am obscure? My French, perhaps, is not of the
      purest, but....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, your French is fluent enough; too fluent at moments, if I may permit
      myself the observation. Now, look you here, M. le filibustier, I am not a
      man with whom it is safe to play the fool, as you may very soon discover.
      You have accepted service of the King of France&mdash;you and your men;
      you hold the rank and draw the pay of a Capitaine de Vaisseau, and these
      your officers hold the rank of lieutenants. These ranks carry obligations
      which you would do well to study, and penalties for failing to discharge
      them which you might study at the same time. They are something severe.
      The first obligation of an officer is obedience. I commend it to your
      attention. You are not to conceive yourselves, as you appear to be doing,
      my allies in the enterprises I have in view, but my subordinates. In me
      you behold a commander to lead you, not a companion or an equal. You
      understand me, I hope.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, be sure that I understand,&rdquo; Captain Blood laughed. He was recovering
      his normal self amazingly under the inspiring stimulus of conflict. The
      only thing that marred his enjoyment was the reflection that he had not
      shaved. &ldquo;I forget nothing, I assure you, my General. I do not forget, for
      instance, as you appear to be doing, that the articles we signed are the
      condition of our service; and the articles provide that we receive
      one-fifth share. Refuse us that, and you cancel the articles; cancel the
      articles, and you cancel our services with them. From that moment we cease
      to have the honour to hold rank in the navies of the King of France.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was more than a murmur of approval from his three captains.
    </p>
    <p>
      Rivarol glared at them, checkmated.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In effect...&rdquo; M. de Cussy was beginning timidly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In effect, monsieur, this is your doing,&rdquo; the Baron flashed on him, glad
      to have some one upon whom he could fasten the sharp fangs of his
      irritation. &ldquo;You should be broke for it. You bring the King&rsquo;s service into
      disrepute; you force me, His Majesty&rsquo;s representative, into an impossible
      position.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it impossible to award us the one-fifth share?&rdquo; quoth Captain Blood
      silkily. &ldquo;In that case, there is no need for beat or for injuries to M. de
      Cussy. M. de Cussy knows that we would not have come for less. We depart
      again upon your assurance that you cannot award us more. And things are as
      they would have been if M. de Cussy had adhered rigidly to his
      instructions. I have proved, I hope, to your satisfaction, M. le Baron,
      that if you repudiate the articles you can neither claim our services nor
      hinder our departure&mdash;not in honour.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not in honour, sir? To the devil with your insolence! Do you imply that
      any course that were not in honour would be possible to me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I do not imply it, because it would not be possible,&rdquo; said Captain Blood.
      &ldquo;We should see to that. It is, my General, for you to say whether the
      articles are repudiated.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Baron sat down. &ldquo;I will consider the matter,&rdquo; he said sullenly. &ldquo;You
      shall be advised of my resolve.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood rose, his officers rose with him. Captain Blood bowed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;M. le Baron!&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      Then he and his buccaneers removed themselves from the August and irate
      presence of the General of the King&rsquo;s Armies by Land and Sea in America.
    </p>
    <p>
      You conceive that there followed for M. de Cussy an extremely bad quarter
      of an hour. M. de Cussy, in fact, deserves your sympathy. His
      self-sufficiency was blown from him by the haughty M. de Rivarol, as down
      from a thistle by the winds of autumn. The General of the King&rsquo;s Armies
      abused him&mdash;this man who was Governor of Hispaniola&mdash;as if he
      were a lackey. M. de Cussy defended himself by urging the thing that
      Captain Blood had so admirably urged already on his behalf&mdash;that if
      the terms he had made with the buccaneers were not confirmed there was no
      harm done. M. de Rivarol bullied and browbeat him into silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      Having exhausted abuse, the Baron proceeded to indignities. Since he
      accounted that M. de Cussy had proved himself unworthy of the post he
      held, M. de Rivarol took over the responsibilities of that post for as
      long as he might remain in Hispaniola, and to give effect to this he began
      by bringing soldiers from his ships, and setting his own guard in M. de
      Cussy&rsquo;s castle.
    </p>
    <p>
      Out of this, trouble followed quickly. Wolverstone coming ashore next
      morning in the picturesque garb that he affected, his head swathed in a
      coloured handkerchief, was jeered at by an officer of the newly landed
      French troops. Not accustomed to derision, Wolverstone replied in kind and
      with interest. The officer passed to insult, and Wolverstone struck him a
      blow that felled him, and left him only the half of his poor senses.
      Within the hour the matter was reported to M. de Rivarol, and before noon,
      by M. de Rivarol&rsquo;s orders, Wolverstone was under arrest in the castle.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Baron had just sat down to dinner with M. de Cussy when the negro who
      waited on them announced Captain Blood. Peevishly M. de Rivarol bade him
      be admitted, and there entered now into his presence a spruce and modish
      gentleman, dressed with care and sombre richness in black and silver, his
      swarthy, clear-cut face scrupulously shaven, his long black hair in
      ringlets that fell to a collar of fine point. In his right hand the
      gentleman carried a broad black hat with a scarlet ostrich-plume, in his
      left hand an ebony cane. His stockings were of silk, a bunch of ribbons
      masked his garters, and the black rosettes on his shoes were finely edged
      with gold.
    </p>
    <p>
      For a moment M. de Rivarol did not recognize him. For Blood looked younger
      by ten years than yesterday. But the vivid blue eyes under their level
      black brows were not to be forgotten, and they proclaimed him for the man
      announced even before he had spoken. His resurrected pride had demanded
      that he should put himself on an equality with the baron and advertise
      that equality by his exterior.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I come inopportunely,&rdquo; he courteously excused himself. &ldquo;My apologies. My
      business could not wait. It concerns, M. de Cussy, Captain Wolverstone of
      the Lachesis, whom you have placed under arrest.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It was I who placed him under arrest,&rdquo; said M. de Rivarol.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Indeed! But I thought that M. de Cussy was Governor of Hispaniola.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Whilst I am here, monsieur, I am the supreme authority. It is as well
      that you should understand it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perfectly. But it is not possible that you are aware of the mistake that
      has been made.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mistake, do you say?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I say mistake. On the whole, it is polite of me to use that word. Also it
      is expedient. It will save discussions. Your people have arrested the
      wrong man, M. de Rivarol. Instead of the French officer, who used the
      grossest provocation, they have arrested Captain Wolverstone. It is a
      matter which I beg you to reverse without delay.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      M. de Rivarol&rsquo;s hawk-face flamed scarlet. His dark eyes bulged.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sir, you... you are insolent! But of an insolence that is intolerable!&rdquo;
       Normally a man of the utmost self-possession he was so rudely shaken now
      that he actually stammered.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;M. le Baron, you waste words. This is the New World. It is not merely
      new; it is novel to one reared amid the superstitions of the Old. That
      novelty you have not yet had time, perhaps, to realize; therefore I
      overlook the offensive epithet you have used. But justice is justice in
      the New World as in the Old, and injustice as intolerable here as there.
      Now justice demands the enlargement of my officer and the arrest and
      punishment of yours. That justice I invite you, with submission, to
      administer.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With submission?&rdquo; snorted the Baron in furious scorn.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With the utmost submission, monsieur. But at the same time I will remind
      M. le Baron that my buccaneers number eight hundred; your troops five
      hundred; and M. de Cussy will inform you of the interesting fact that any
      one buccaneer is equal in action to at least three soldiers of the line. I
      am perfectly frank with you, monsieur, to save time and hard words. Either
      Captain Wolverstone is instantly set at liberty, or we must take measures
      to set him at liberty ourselves. The consequences may be appalling. But it
      is as you please, M. le Baron. You are the supreme authority. It is for
      you to say.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      M. de Rivarol was white to the lips. In all his life he had never been so
      bearded and defied. But he controlled himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You will do me the favour to wait in the ante-room, M. le Capitaine. I
      desire a word with M. de Cussy. You shall presently be informed of my
      decision.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      When the door had closed, the baron loosed his fury upon the head of M. de
      Cussy.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So, these are the men you have enlisted in the King&rsquo;s service, the men
      who are to serve under me&mdash;men who do not serve, but dictate, and
      this before the enterprise that has brought me from France is even under
      way! What explanations do you offer me, M. de Cussy? I warn you that I am
      not pleased with you. I am, in fact, as you may perceive, exceedingly
      angry.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Governor seemed to shed his chubbiness. He drew himself stiffly erect.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your rank, monsieur, does not give you the right to rebuke me; nor do the
      facts. I have enlisted for you the men that you desired me to enlist. It
      is not my fault if you do not know how to handle them better. As Captain
      Blood has told you, this is the New World.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So, so!&rdquo; M. de Rivarol smiled malignantly. &ldquo;Not only do you offer no
      explanation, but you venture to put me in the wrong. Almost I admire your
      temerity. But there!&rdquo; he waved the matter aside. He was supremely
      sardonic. &ldquo;It is, you tell me, the New World, and&mdash;new worlds, new
      manners, I suppose. In time I may conform my ideas to this new world, or I
      may conform this new world to my ideas.&rdquo; He was menacing on that. &ldquo;For the
      moment I must accept what I find. It remains for you, monsieur, who have
      experience of these savage by-ways, to advise me out of that experience
      how to act.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;M. le Baron, it was a folly to have arrested the buccaneer captain. It
      would be madness to persist. We have not the forces to meet force.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In that case, monsieur, perhaps you will tell me what we are to do with
      regard to the future. Am I to submit at every turn to the dictates of this
      man Blood? Is the enterprise upon which we are embarked to be conducted as
      he decrees? Am I, in short, the King&rsquo;s representative in America, to be at
      the mercy of these rascals?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, by no means. I am enrolling volunteers here in Hispaniola, and I am
      raising a corps of negroes. I compute that when this is done we shall have
      a force of a thousand men, the buccaneers apart.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But in that case why not dispense with them?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Because they will always remain the sharp edge of any weapon that we
      forge. In the class of warfare that lies before us they are so skilled
      that what Captain Blood has just said is not an overstatement. A buccaneer
      is equal to three soldiers of the line. At the same time we shall have a
      sufficient force to keep them in control. For the rest, monsieur, they
      have certain notions of honour. They will stand by their articles, and so
      that we deal justly with them, they will deal justly with us, and give no
      trouble. I have experience of them, and I pledge you my word for that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      M. de Rivarol condescended to be mollified. It was necessary that he
      should save his face, and in a degree the Governor afforded him the means
      to do so, as well as a certain guarantee for the future in the further
      force he was raising.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very well,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Be so good as to recall this Captain Blood.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Captain came in, assured and very dignified. M. de Rivarol found him
      detestable; but dissembled it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;M. le Capitaine, I have taken counsel with M. le Gouverneur. From what he
      tells me, it is possible that a mistake has been committed. Justice, you
      may be sure, shall be done. To ensure it, I shall myself preside over a
      council to be composed of two of my senior officers, yourself and an
      officer of yours. This council shall hold at once an impartial
      investigation into the affair, and the offender, the man guilty of having
      given provocation, shall be punished.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood bowed. It was not his wish to be extreme. &ldquo;Perfectly, M. le
      Baron. And now, sir, you have had the night for reflection in this matter
      of the articles. Am I to understand that you confirm or that you repudiate
      them?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      M. de Rivarol&rsquo;s eyes narrowed. His mind was full of what M. de Cussy had
      said&mdash;that these buccaneers must prove the sharp edge of any weapon
      he might forge. He could not dispense with them. He perceived that he had
      blundered tactically in attempting to reduce the agreed share. Withdrawal
      from a position of that kind is ever fraught with loss of dignity. But
      there were those volunteers that M. de Cussy was enrolling to strengthen
      the hand of the King&rsquo;s General. Their presence might admit anon of the
      reopening of this question. Meanwhile he must retire in the best order
      possible.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have considered that, too,&rdquo; he announced. &ldquo;And whilst my opinion
      remains unaltered, I must confess that since M. de Cussy has pledged us,
      it is for us to fulfil the pledges. The articles are confirmed, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood bowed again. In vain M. de Rivarol looked searchingly for
      the least trace of a smile of triumph on those firm lips. The buccaneer&rsquo;s
      face remained of the utmost gravity.
    </p>
    <p>
      Wolverstone was set at liberty that afternoon, and his assailant sentenced
      to two months&rsquo; detention. Thus harmony was restored. But it had been an
      unpromising beginning, and there was more to follow shortly of a similar
      discordant kind.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood and his officers were summoned a week later to a council which sat
      to determine their operations against Spain. M. de Rivarol laid before
      them a project for a raid upon the wealthy Spanish town of Cartagena.
      Captain Blood professed astonishment. Sourly invited by M. de Rivarol to
      state his grounds for it, he did so with the utmost frankness.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Were I General of the King&rsquo;s Armies in America,&rdquo; said he, &ldquo;I should have
      no doubt or hesitation as to the best way in which to serve my Royal
      master and the French nation. That which I think will be obvious to M. de
      Cussy, as it is to me, is that we should at once invade Spanish Hispaniola
      and reduce the whole of this fruitful and splendid island into the
      possession of the King of France.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That may follow,&rdquo; said M. de Rivarol. &ldquo;It is my wish that we begin with
      Cartagena.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You mean, sir, that we are to sail across the Caribbean on an adventurous
      expedition, neglecting that which lies here at our very door. In our
      absence, a Spanish invasion of French Hispaniola is possible. If we begin
      by reducing the Spaniards here, that possibility will be removed. We shall
      have added to the Crown of France the most coveted possession in the West
      Indies. The enterprise offers no particular difficulty; it may be speedily
      accomplished, and once accomplished, it would be time to look farther
      afield. That would seem the logical order in which this campaign should
      proceed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He ceased, and there was silence. M. de Rivarol sat back in his chair, the
      feathered end of a quill between his teeth. Presently he cleared his
      throat and asked a question.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is there anybody else who shares Captain Blood&rsquo;s opinion?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      None answered him. His own officers were overawed by him; Blood&rsquo;s
      followers naturally preferred Cartagena, because offering the greater
      chance of loot. Loyalty to their leader kept them silent.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You seem to be alone in your opinion,&rdquo; said the Baron with his vinegary
      smile.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood laughed outright. He had suddenly read the Baron&rsquo;s mind. His
      airs and graces and haughtiness had so imposed upon Blood that it was only
      now that at last he saw through them, into the fellow&rsquo;s peddling spirit.
      Therefore he laughed; there was really nothing else to do. But his
      laughter was charged with more anger even than contempt. He had been
      deluding himself that he had done with piracy. The conviction that this
      French service was free of any taint of that was the only consideration
      that had induced him to accept it. Yet here was this haughty, supercilious
      gentleman, who dubbed himself General of the Armies of France, proposing a
      plundering, thieving raid which, when stripped of its mean, transparent
      mask of legitimate warfare, was revealed as piracy of the most flagrant.
    </p>
    <p>
      M. de Rivarol, intrigued by his mirth, scowled upon him disapprovingly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why do you laugh, monsieur?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Because I discover here an irony that is supremely droll. You, M. le
      Baron, General of the King&rsquo;s Armies by Land and Sea in America, propose an
      enterprise of a purely buccaneering character; whilst I, the buccaneer, am
      urging one that is more concerned with upholding the honour of France. You
      perceive how droll it is.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      M. de Rivarol perceived nothing of the kind. M. de Rivarol in fact was
      extremely angry. He bounded to his feet, and every man in the room rose
      with him&mdash;save only M. de Cussy, who sat on with a grim smile on his
      lips. He, too, now read the Baron like an open book, and reading him
      despised him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;M. le filibustier,&rdquo; cried Rivarol in a thick voice, &ldquo;it seems that I must
      again remind you that I am your superior officer.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My superior officer! You! Lord of the World! Why, you are just a common
      pirate! But you shall hear the truth for once, and that before all these
      gentlemen who have the honour to serve the King of France. It is for me, a
      buccaneer, a sea-robber, to stand here and tell you what is in the
      interest of French honour and the French Crown. Whilst you, the French
      King&rsquo;s appointed General, neglecting this, are for spending the King&rsquo;s
      resources against an outlying settlement of no account, shedding French
      blood in seizing a place that cannot be held, only because it has been
      reported to you that there is much gold in Cartagena, and that the plunder
      of it will enrich you. It is worthy of the huckster who sought to haggle
      with us about our share, and to beat us down after the articles pledging
      you were already signed. If I am wrong&mdash;let M. de Cussy say so. If I
      am wrong, let me be proven wrong, and I will beg your pardon. Meanwhile,
      monsieur, I withdraw from this council. I will have no further part in
      your deliberations. I accepted the service of the King of France with
      intent to honour that service. I cannot honour that service by lending
      countenance to a waste of life and resources in raids upon unimportant
      settlements, with plunder for their only object. The responsibility for
      such decisions must rest with you, and with you alone. I desire M. de
      Cussy to report me to the Ministers of France. For the rest, monsieur, it
      merely remains for you to give me your orders. I await them aboard my ship&mdash;and
      anything else, of a personal nature, that you may feel I have provoked by
      the terms I have felt compelled to use in this council. M. le Baron, I
      have the honour to wish you good-day.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stalked out, and his three captains&mdash;although they thought him mad&mdash;rolled
      after him in loyal silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      M. de Rivarol was gasping like a landed fish. The stark truth had robbed
      him of speech. When he recovered, it was to thank Heaven vigorously that
      the council was relieved by Captain Blood&rsquo;s own act of that gentleman&rsquo;s
      further participation in its deliberations. Inwardly M. de Rivarol burned
      with shame and rage. The mask had been plucked from him, and he had been
      held up to scorn&mdash;he, the General of the King&rsquo;s Armies by Sea and
      Land in America.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nevertheless, it was to Cartagena that they sailed in the middle of March.
      Volunteers and negroes had brought up the forces directly under M. de
      Rivarol to twelve hundred men. With these he thought he could keep the
      buccaneer contingent in order and submissive.
    </p>
    <p>
      They made up an imposing fleet, led by M. de Rivarol&rsquo;s flagship, the
      Victorieuse, a mighty vessel of eighty guns. Each of the four other French
      ships was at least as powerful as Blood&rsquo;s Arabella, which was of forty
      guns. Followed the lesser buccaneer vessels, the Elizabeth, Lachesis, and
      Atropos, and a dozen frigates laden with stores, besides canoes and small
      craft in tow.
    </p>
    <p>
      Narrowly they missed the Jamaica fleet with Colonel Bishop, which sailed
      north for Tortuga two days after the Baron de Rivarol&rsquo;s southward passage.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0027" id="link2HCH0027">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XXVII. CARTAGENA
    </h2>
    <p>
      Having crossed the Caribbean in the teeth of contrary winds, it was not
      until the early days of April that the French fleet hove in sight of
      Cartagena, and M. de Rivarol summoned a council aboard his flagship to
      determine the method of assault.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is of importance, messieurs,&rdquo; he told them, &ldquo;that we take the city by
      surprise, not only before it can put itself into a state of defence; but
      before it can remove its treasures inland. I propose to land a force
      sufficient to achieve this to the north of the city to-night after dark.&rdquo;
       And he explained in detail the scheme upon which his wits had laboured.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was heard respectfully and approvingly by his officers, scornfully by
      Captain Blood, and indifferently by the other buccaneer captains present.
      For it must be understood that Blood&rsquo;s refusal to attend councils had
      related only to those concerned with determining the nature of the
      enterprise to be undertaken.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood was the only one amongst them who knew exactly what lay
      ahead. Two years ago he had himself considered a raid upon the place, and
      he had actually made a survey of it in circumstances which he was
      presently to disclose.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Baron&rsquo;s proposal was one to be expected from a commander whose
      knowledge of Cartagena was only such as might be derived from maps.
    </p>
    <p>
      Geographically and strategically considered, it is a curious place. It
      stands almost four-square, screened east and north by hills, and it may be
      said to face south upon the inner of two harbours by which it is normally
      approached. The entrance to the outer harbour, which is in reality a
      lagoon some three miles across, lies through a neck known as the Boca
      Chica&mdash;or Little Mouth&mdash;and defended by a fort. A long strip of
      densely wooded land to westward acts here as a natural breakwater, and as
      the inner harbour is approached, another strip of land thrusts across at
      right angles from the first, towards the mainland on the east. Just short
      of this it ceases, leaving a deep but very narrow channel, a veritable
      gateway, into the secure and sheltered inner harbour. Another fort defends
      this second passage. East and north of Cartagena lies the mainland, which
      may be left out of account. But to the west and northwest this city, so
      well guarded on every other side, lies directly open to the sea. It stands
      back beyond a half-mile of beach, and besides this and the stout Walls
      which fortify it, would appear to have no other defences. But those
      appearances are deceptive, and they had utterly deceived M. de Rivarol,
      when he devised his plan.
    </p>
    <p>
      It remained for Captain Blood to explain the difficulties when M. de
      Rivarol informed him that the honour of opening the assault in the manner
      which he prescribed was to be accorded to the buccaneers.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood smiled sardonic appreciation of the honour reserved for his
      men. It was precisely what he would have expected. For the buccaneers the
      dangers; for M. de Rivarol the honour, glory and profit of the enterprise.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is an honour which I must decline,&rdquo; said he quite coldly.
    </p>
    <p>
      Wolverstone grunted approval and Hagthorpe nodded. Yberville, who as much
      as any of them resented the superciliousness of his noble compatriot,
      never wavered in loyalty to Captain Blood. The French officers&mdash;there
      were six of them present&mdash;stared their haughty surprise at the
      buccaneer leader, whilst the Baron challengingly fired a question at him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How? You decline it, &lsquo;sir? You decline to obey orders, do you say?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I understood, M. le Baron, that you summoned us to deliberate upon the
      means to be adopted.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then you understood amiss, M. le Capitaine. You are here to receive my
      commands. I have already deliberated, and I have decided. I hope you
      understand.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, I understand,&rdquo; laughed Blood. &ldquo;But, I ask myself, do you?&rdquo; And
      without giving the Baron time to set the angry question that was bubbling
      to his lips, he swept on: &ldquo;You have deliberated, you say, and you have
      decided. But unless your decision rests upon a wish to destroy my
      buccaneers, you will alter it when I tell you something of which I have
      knowledge. This city of Cartagena looks very vulnerable on the northern
      side, all open to the sea as it apparently stands. Ask yourself, M. le
      Baron, how came the Spaniards who built it where it is to have been at
      such trouble to fortify it to the south, if from the north it is so easily
      assailable.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      That gave M. de Rivarol pause.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The Spaniards,&rdquo; Blood pursued, &ldquo;are not quite the fools you are supposing
      them. Let me tell you, messieurs, that two years ago I made a survey of
      Cartagena as a preliminary to raiding it. I came hither with some friendly
      trading Indians, myself disguised as an Indian, and in that guise I spent
      a week in the city and studied carefully all its approaches. On the side
      of the sea where it looks so temptingly open to assault, there is shoal
      water for over half a mile out&mdash;far enough out, I assure you, to
      ensure that no ship shall come within bombarding range of it. It is not
      safe to venture nearer land than three quarters of a mile.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But our landing will be effected in canoes and piraguas and open boats,&rdquo;
       cried an officer impatiently.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the calmest season of the year, the surf will hinder any such
      operation. And you will also bear in mind that if landing were possible as
      you are suggesting, that landing could not be covered by the ships&rsquo; guns.
      In fact, it is the landing parties would be in danger from their own
      artillery.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If the attack is made by night, as I propose, covering will be
      unnecessary. You should be ashore in force before the Spaniards are aware
      of the intent.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are assuming that Cartagena is a city of the blind, that at this very
      moment they are not conning our sails and asking themselves who we are and
      what we intend.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But if they feel themselves secure from the north, as you suggest,&rdquo; cried
      the Baron impatiently, &ldquo;that very security will lull them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps. But, then, they are secure. Any attempt to land on this side is
      doomed to failure at the hands of Nature.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nevertheless, we make the attempt,&rdquo; said the obstinate Baron, whose
      haughtiness would not allow him to yield before his officers.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you still choose to do so after what I have said, you are, of course,
      the person to decide. But I do not lead my men into fruitless danger.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I command you...&rdquo; the Baron was beginning. But Blood unceremoniously
      interrupted him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;M. le Baron, when M. de Cussy engaged us on your behalf, it was as much
      on account of our knowledge and experience of this class of warfare as on
      account of our strength. I have placed my own knowledge and experience in
      this particular matter at your disposal. I will add that I abandoned my
      own project of raiding Cartagena, not being in sufficient strength at the
      time to force the entrance of the harbour, which is the only way into the
      city. The strength which you now command is ample for that purpose.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But whilst we are doing that, the Spaniards will have time to remove
      great part of the wealth this city holds. We must take them by surprise.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood shrugged. &ldquo;If this is a mere pirating raid, that, of course,
      is a prime consideration. It was with me. But if you are concerned to
      abate the pride of Spain and plant the Lilies of France on the forts of
      this settlement, the loss of some treasure should not really weigh for
      much.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      M. de Rivarol bit his lip in chagrin. His gloomy eye smouldered as it
      considered the self-contained buccaneer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But if I command you to go&mdash;to make the attempt?&rdquo; he asked. &ldquo;Answer
      me, monsieur, let us know once for all where we stand, and who commands
      this expedition.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Positively, I find you tiresome,&rdquo; said Captain Blood, and he swung to M.
      de Cussy, who sat there gnawing his lip, intensely uncomfortable. &ldquo;I
      appeal to you, monsieur, to justify me to the General.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      M. de Cussy started out of his gloomy abstraction. He cleared his throat.
      He was extremely nervous.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In view of what Captain Blood has submitted....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, to the devil with that!&rdquo; snapped Rivarol. &ldquo;It seems that I am
      followed by poltroons. Look you, M. le Capitaine, since you are afraid to
      undertake this thing, I will myself undertake it. The weather is calm, and
      I count upon making good my landing. If I do so, I shall have proved you
      wrong, and I shall have a word to say to you to-morrow which you may not
      like. I am being very generous with you, sir.&rdquo; He waved his hand regally.
      &ldquo;You have leave to go.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was sheer obstinacy and empty pride that drove him, and he received the
      lesson he deserved. The fleet stood in during the afternoon to within a
      mile of the coast, and under cover of darkness three hundred men, of whom
      two hundred were negroes&mdash;the whole of the negro contingent having
      been pressed into the undertaking&mdash;were pulled away for the shore in
      the canoes, piraguas, and ships&rsquo; boats. Rivarol&rsquo;s pride compelled him,
      however much he may have disliked the venture, to lead them in person.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first six boats were caught in the surf, and pounded into fragments
      before their occupants could extricate themselves. The thunder of the
      breakers and the cries of the shipwrecked warned those who followed, and
      thereby saved them from sharing the same fate. By the Baron&rsquo;s urgent
      orders they pulled away again out of danger, and stood about to pick up
      such survivors as contrived to battle towards them. Close upon fifty lives
      were lost in the adventure, together with half-a-dozen boats stored with
      ammunition and light guns.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Baron went back to his flagship an infuriated, but by no means a wiser
      man. Wisdom&mdash;not even the pungent wisdom experience thrusts upon us&mdash;is
      not for such as M. de Rivarol. His anger embraced all things, but focussed
      chiefly upon Captain Blood. In some warped process of reasoning he held
      the buccaneer chiefly responsible for this misadventure. He went to bed
      considering furiously what he should say to Captain Blood upon the morrow.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was awakened at dawn by the rolling thunder of guns. Emerging upon the
      poop in nightcap and slippers, he beheld a sight that increased his
      unreasonable and unreasoning fury. The four buccaneer ships under canvas
      were going through extraordinary manoeuvre half a mile off the Boca Chica
      and little more than half a mile away from the remainder of the fleet, and
      from their flanks flame and smoke were belching each time they swung
      broadside to the great round fort that guarded that narrow entrance. The
      fort was returning the fire vigorously and viciously. But the buccaneers
      timed their broadsides with extraordinary judgment to catch the defending
      ordnance reloading; then as they drew the Spaniards&rsquo; fire, they swung away
      again not only taking care to be ever moving targets, but, further, to
      present no more than bow or stern to the fort, their masts in line, when
      the heaviest cannonades were to be expected.
    </p>
    <p>
      Gibbering and cursing, M. de Rivarol stood there and watched this action,
      so presumptuously undertaken by Blood on his own responsibility. The
      officers of the Victorieuse crowded round him, but it was not until M. de
      Cussy came to join the group that he opened the sluices of his rage. And
      M. de Cussy himself invited the deluge that now caught him. He had come up
      rubbing his hands and taking a proper satisfaction in the energy of the
      men whom he had enlisted.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aha, M. de Rivarol!&rdquo; he laughed. &ldquo;He understands his business, eh, this
      Captain Blood. He&rsquo;ll plant the Lilies of France on that fort before
      breakfast.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The Baron swung upon him snarling. &ldquo;He understands his business, eh? His
      business, let me tell you, M. de Cussy, is to obey my orders, and I have
      not ordered this. Par la Mordieu! When this is over I&rsquo;ll deal with him for
      his damned insubordination.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Surely, M. le Baron, he will have justified it if he succeeds.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Justified it! Ah, parbleu! Can a soldier ever justify acting without
      orders?&rdquo; He raved on furiously, his officers supporting him out of their
      detestation of Captain Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meanwhile the fight went merrily on. The fort was suffering badly. Yet for
      all their manoeuvring the buccaneers were not escaping punishment. The
      starboard gunwale of the Atropos had been hammered into splinters, and a
      shot had caught her astern in the coach. The Elizabeth was badly battered
      about the forecastle, and the Arabella&rsquo;s maintop had been shot away,
      whilst&rsquo; towards the end of that engagement the Lachesis came reeling out
      of the fight with a shattered rudder, steering herself by sweeps.
    </p>
    <p>
      The absurd Baron&rsquo;s fierce eyes positively gleamed with satisfaction.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I pray Heaven they may sink all his infernal ships!&rdquo; he cried in his
      frenzy.
    </p>
    <p>
      But Heaven didn&rsquo;t hear him. Scarcely had he spoken than there was a
      terrific explosion, and half the fort went up in fragments. A lucky shot
      from the buccaneers had found the powder magazine.
    </p>
    <p>
      It may have been a couple of hours later, when Captain Blood, as spruce
      and cool as if he had just come from a levee, stepped upon the
      quarter-deck of the Victoriense, to confront M. de Rivarol, still in
      bedgown and nightcap.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have to report, M. le Baron, that we are in possession of the fort on
      Boca Chica. The standard of France is flying from what remains of its
      tower, and the way into the outer harbour is open to your fleet.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      M. de Rivarol was compelled to swallow his fury, though it choked him. The
      jubilation among his officers had been such that he could not continue as
      he had begun. Yet his eyes were malevolent, his face pale with anger.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are fortunate, M. Blood, that you succeeded,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It would have
      gone very ill with you had you failed. Another time be so good as to await
      my orders, lest you should afterwards lack the justification which your
      good fortune has procured you this morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood smiled with a flash of white teeth, and bowed. &ldquo;I shall be glad of
      your orders now, General, for pursuing our advantage. You realize that
      speed in striking is the first essential.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Rivarol was left gaping a moment. Absorbed in his ridiculous anger, he had
      considered nothing. But he made a quick recovery. &ldquo;To my cabin, if you
      please,&rdquo; he commanded peremptorily, and was turning to lead the way, when
      Blood arrested him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With submission, my General, we shall be better here. You behold there
      the scene of our coming action. It is spread before you like a map.&rdquo; He
      waved his hand towards the lagoon, the country flanking it and the
      considerable city standing back from the beach. &ldquo;If it is not a
      presumption in me to offer a suggestion....&rdquo; He paused. M. de Rivarol
      looked at him sharply, suspecting irony. But the swarthy face was bland,
      the keen eyes steady.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let us hear your suggestion,&rdquo; he consented.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood pointed out the fort at the mouth of the inner harbour, which was
      just barely visible above the waving palms on the intervening tongue of
      land. He announced that its armament was less formidable than that of the
      outer fort, which they had reduced; but on the other hand, the passage was
      very much narrower than the Boca Chica, and before they could attempt to
      make it in any case, they must dispose of those defences. He proposed that
      the French ships should enter the outer harbour, and proceed at once to
      bombardment. Meanwhile, he would land three hundred buccaneers and some
      artillery on the eastern side of the lagoon, beyond the fragrant garden
      islands dense with richly bearing fruit-trees, and proceed simultaneously
      to storm the fort in the rear. Thus beset on both sides at once, and
      demoralized by the fate of the much stronger outer fort, he did not think
      the Spaniards would offer a very long resistance. Then it would be for M.
      de Rivarol to garrison the fort, whilst Captain Blood would sweep on with
      his men, and seize the Church of Nuestra Senora de la Poupa, plainly
      visible on its hill immediately eastward of the town. Not only did that
      eminence afford them a valuable and obvious strategic advantage, but it
      commanded the only road that led from Cartagena to the interior, and once
      it were held there would be no further question of the Spaniards
      attempting to remove the wealth of the city.
    </p>
    <p>
      That to M. de Rivarol was&mdash;as Captain Blood had judged that it would
      be&mdash;the crowning argument. Supercilious until that moment, and
      disposed for his own pride&rsquo;s sake to treat the buccaneer&rsquo;s suggestions
      with cavalier criticism, M. de Rivarol&rsquo;s manner suddenly changed. He
      became alert and brisk, went so far as tolerantly to commend Captain
      Blood&rsquo;s plan, and issued orders that action might be taken upon it at
      once.
    </p>
    <p>
      It is not necessary to follow that action step by step. Blunders on the
      part of the French marred its smooth execution, and the indifferent
      handling of their ships led to the sinking of two of them in the course of
      the afternoon by the fort&rsquo;s gunfire. But by evening, owing largely to the
      irresistible fury with which the buccaneers stormed the place from the
      landward side, the fort had surrendered, and before dusk Blood and his men
      with some ordnance hauled thither by mules dominated the city from the
      heights of Nuestra Senora de la Poupa.
    </p>
    <p>
      At noon on the morrow, shorn of defences and threatened with bombardment,
      Cartagena sent offers of surrender to M. de Rivarol.
    </p>
    <p>
      Swollen with pride by a victory for which he took the entire credit to
      himself, the Baron dictated his terms. He demanded that all public effects
      and office accounts be delivered up; that the merchants surrender all
      moneys and goods held by them for their correspondents; the inhabitants
      could choose whether they would remain in the city or depart; but those
      who went must first deliver up all their property, and those who elected
      to remain must surrender half, and become the subjects of France;
      religious houses and churches should be spared, but they must render
      accounts of all moneys and valuables in their possession.
    </p>
    <p>
      Cartagena agreed, having no choice in the matter, and on the next day,
      which was the 5th of April, M. de Rivarol entered the city and proclaimed
      it now a French colony, appointing M. de Cussy its Governor. Thereafter he
      proceeded to the Cathedral, where very properly a Te Deum was sung in
      honour of the conquest. This by way of grace, whereafter M. de Rivarol
      proceeded to devour the city. The only detail in which the French conquest
      of Cartagena differed from an ordinary buccaneering raid was that under
      the severest penalties no soldier was to enter the house of any
      inhabitant. But this apparent respect for the persons and property of the
      conquered was based in reality upon M. de Rivarol&rsquo;s anxiety lest a
      doubloon should be abstracted from all the wealth that was pouring into
      the treasury opened by the Baron in the name of the King of France. Once
      the golden stream had ceased, he removed all restrictions and left the
      city in prey to his men, who proceeded further to pillage it of that part
      of their property which the inhabitants who became French subjects had
      been assured should remain inviolate. The plunder was enormous. In the
      course of four days over a hundred mules laden with gold went out of the
      city and down to the boats waiting at the beach to convey the treasure
      aboard the ships.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0028" id="link2HCH0028">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XXVIII. THE HONOUR OF M. DE RIVAROL
    </h2>
    <p>
      During the capitulation and for some time after, Captain Blood and the
      greater portion of his buccaneers had been at their post on the heights of
      Nuestra Senora de la Poupa, utterly in ignorance of what was taking place.
      Blood, although the man chiefly, if not solely, responsible for the swift
      reduction of the city, which was proving a veritable treasure-house, was
      not even shown the consideration of being called to the council of
      officers which with M. de Rivarol determined the terms of the
      capitulation.
    </p>
    <p>
      This was a slight that at another time Captain Blood would not have borne
      for a moment. But at present, in his odd frame of mind, and its
      divorcement from piracy, he was content to smile his utter contempt of the
      French General. Not so, however, his captains, and still less his men.
      Resentment smouldered amongst them for a while, to flame out violently at
      the end of that week in Cartagena. It was only by undertaking to voice
      their grievance to the Baron that their captain was able for the moment to
      pacify them. That done, he went at once in quest of M. de Rivarol.
    </p>
    <p>
      He found him in the offices which the Baron had set up in the town, with a
      staff of clerks to register the treasure brought in and to cast up the
      surrendered account-books, with a view to ascertaining precisely what were
      the sums yet to be delivered up. The Baron sat there scrutinizing ledgers,
      like a city merchant, and checking figures to make sure that all was
      correct to the last peso. A choice occupation this for the General of the
      King&rsquo;s Armies by Sea and Land. He looked up irritated by the interruption
      which Captain Blood&rsquo;s advent occasioned.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;M. le Baron,&rdquo; the latter greeted him. &ldquo;I must speak frankly; and you must
      suffer it. My men are on the point of mutiny.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      M. de Rivarol considered him with a faint lift of the eyebrows.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Captain Blood, I, too, will speak frankly; and you, too, must suffer it.
      If there is a mutiny, you and your captains shall be held personally
      responsible. The mistake you make is in assuming with me the tone of an
      ally, whereas I have given you clearly to understand from the first that
      you are simply in the position of having accepted service under me. Your
      proper apprehension of that fact will save the waste of a deal of words.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood contained himself with difficulty. One of these fine days, he felt,
      that for the sake of humanity he must slit the comb of this supercilious,
      arrogant cockerel.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You may define our positions as you please,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;But I&rsquo;ll remind
      you that the nature of a thing is not changed by the name you give it. I
      am concerned with facts; chiefly with the fact that we entered into
      definite articles with you. Those articles provide for a certain
      distribution of the spoil. My men demand it. They are not satisfied.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of what are they not satisfied?&rdquo; demanded the Baron.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of your honesty, M. de Rivarol.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A blow in the face could scarcely have taken the Frenchman more aback. He
      stiffened, and drew himself up, his eyes blazing, his face of a deathly
      pallor. The clerks at the tables laid down their pens, and awaited the
      explosion in a sort of terror.
    </p>
    <p>
      For a long moment there was silence. Then the great gentleman delivered
      himself in a voice of concentrated anger. &ldquo;Do you really dare so much, you
      and the dirty thieves that follow you? God&rsquo;s Blood! You shall answer to me
      for that word, though it entail a yet worse dishonour to meet you. Faugh!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will remind you,&rdquo; said Blood, &ldquo;that I am speaking not for myself, but
      for my men. It is they who are not satisfied, they who threaten that
      unless satisfaction is afforded them, and promptly, they will take it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Take it?&rdquo; said Rivarol, trembling in his rage. &ldquo;Let them attempt it,
      and....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now don&rsquo;t be rash. My men are within their rights, as you are aware. They
      demand to know when this sharing of the spoil is to take place, and when
      they are to receive the fifth for which their articles provide.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;God give me patience! How can we share the spoil before it has been
      completely gathered?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My men have reason to believe that it is gathered; and, anyway, they view
      with mistrust that it should all be housed aboard your ships, and remain
      in your possession. They say that hereafter there will be no ascertaining
      what the spoil really amounts to.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But&mdash;name of Heaven!&mdash;I have kept books. They are there for all
      to see.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They do not wish to see account-books. Few of them can read. They want to
      view the treasure itself. They know&mdash;you compel me to be blunt&mdash;that
      the accounts have been falsified. Your books show the spoil of Cartagena
      to amount to some ten million livres. The men know&mdash;and they are very
      skilled in these computations&mdash;that it exceeds the enormous total of
      forty millions. They insist that the treasure itself be produced and
      weighed in their presence, as is the custom among the Brethren of the
      Coast.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I know nothing of filibuster customs.&rdquo; The gentleman was disdainful.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But you are learning quickly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you mean, you rogue? I am a leader of armies, not of plundering
      thieves.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, but of course!&rdquo; Blood&rsquo;s irony laughed in his eyes. &ldquo;Yet, whatever you
      may be, I warn you that unless you yield to a demand that I consider just
      and therefore uphold, you may look for trouble, and it would not surprise
      me if you never leave Cartagena at all, nor convey a single gold piece
      home to France.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah, pardieu! Am I to understand that you are threatening me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Come, come, M. le Baron! I warn you of the trouble that a little prudence
      may avert. You do not know on what a volcano you are sitting. You do not
      know the ways of buccaneers. If you persist, Cartagena will be drenched in
      blood, and whatever the outcome the King of France will not have been well
      served.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      That shifted the basis of the argument to less hostile ground. Awhile yet
      it continued, to be concluded at last by an ungracious undertaking from M.
      de Rivarol to submit to the demands of the buccaneers. He gave it with an
      extreme ill-grace, and only because Blood made him realize at last that to
      withhold it longer would be dangerous. In an engagement, he might
      conceivably defeat Blood&rsquo;s followers. But conceivably he might not. And
      even if he succeeded, the effort would be so costly to him in men that he
      might not thereafter find himself in sufficient strength to maintain his
      hold of what he had seized.
    </p>
    <p>
      The end of it all was that he gave a promise at once to make the necessary
      preparations, and if Captain Blood and his officers would wait upon him on
      board the Victorieuse to-morrow morning, the treasure should be produced,
      weighed in their presence, and their fifth share surrendered there and
      then into their own keeping.
    </p>
    <p>
      Among the buccaneers that night there was hilarity over the sudden
      abatement of M. de Rivarol&rsquo;s monstrous pride. But when the next dawn broke
      over Cartagena, they had the explanation of it. The only ships to be seen
      in the harbour were the Arabella and the Elizabeth riding at anchor, and
      the Atropos and the Lachesis careened on the beach for repair of the
      damage sustained in the bombardment. The French ships were gone. They had
      been quietly and secretly warped out of the harbour under cover of night,
      and three sails, faint and small, on the horizon to westward was all that
      remained to be seen of them. The absconding M. de Rivarol had gone off
      with the treasure, taking with him the troops and mariners he had brought
      from France. He had left behind him at Cartagena not only the empty-handed
      buccaneers, whom he had swindled, but also M. de Cussy and the volunteers
      and negroes from Hispaniola, whom he had swindled no less.
    </p>
    <p>
      The two parties were fused into one by their common fury, and before the
      exhibition of it the inhabitants of that ill-fated town were stricken with
      deeper terror than they had yet known since the coming of this expedition.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood alone kept his head, setting a curb upon his deep chagrin.
      He had promised himself that before parting from M. de Rivarol he would
      present a reckoning for all the petty affronts and insults to which that
      unspeakable fellow&mdash;now proved a scoundrel&mdash;had subjected him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We must follow,&rdquo; he declared. &ldquo;Follow and punish.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At first that was the general cry. Then came the consideration that only
      two of the buccaneer ships were seaworthy&mdash;and these could not
      accommodate the whole force, particularly being at the moment
      indifferently victualled for a long voyage. The crews of the Lachesis and
      Atropos and with them their captains, Wolverstone and Yberville, renounced
      the intention. After all, there would be a deal of treasure still hidden
      in Cartagena. They would remain behind to extort it whilst fitting their
      ships for sea. Let Blood and Hagthorpe and those who sailed with them do
      as they pleased.
    </p>
    <p>
      Then only did Blood realize the rashness of his proposal, and in
      attempting to draw back he almost precipitated a battle between the two
      parties into which that same proposal had now divided the buccaneers. And
      meanwhile those French sails on the horizon were growing less and less.
      Blood was reduced to despair. If he went off now, Heaven knew what would
      happen to the town, the temper of those whom he was leaving being what it
      was. Yet if he remained, it would simply mean that his own and Hagthorpe&rsquo;s
      crews would join in the saturnalia and increase the hideousness of events
      now inevitable. Unable to reach a decision, his own men and Hagthorpe&rsquo;s
      took the matter off his hands, eager to give chase to Rivarol. Not only
      was a dastardly cheat to be punished but an enormous treasure to be won by
      treating as an enemy this French commander who, himself, had so
      villainously broken the alliance.
    </p>
    <p>
      When Blood, torn as he was between conflicting considerations, still
      hesitated, they bore him almost by main force aboard the Arabella.
    </p>
    <p>
      Within an hour, the water-casks at least replenished and stowed aboard,
      the Arabella and the Elizabeth put to sea upon that angry chase.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When we were well at sea, and the Arabella&rsquo;s course was laid,&rdquo; writes
      Pitt, in his log, &ldquo;I went to seek the Captain, knowing him to be in great
      trouble of mind over these events. I found him sitting alone in his cabin,
      his head in his hands, torment in the eyes that stared straight before
      him, seeing nothing.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What now, Peter?&rdquo; cried the young Somerset mariner. &ldquo;Lord, man, what is
      there here to fret you? Surely &lsquo;t isn&rsquo;t the thought of Rivarol!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; said Blood thickly. And for once he was communicative. It may well
      be that he must vent the thing that oppressed him or be driven mad by it.
      And Pitt, after all, was his friend and loved him, and, so, a proper man
      for confidences. &ldquo;But if she knew! If she knew! O God! I had thought to
      have done with piracy; thought to have done with it for ever. Yet here
      have I been committed by this scoundrel to the worst piracy that ever I
      was guilty of. Think of Cartagena! Think of the hell those devils will be
      making of it now! And I must have that on my soul!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nay, Peter&mdash;&lsquo;t isn&rsquo;t on your soul; but on Rivarol&rsquo;s. It is that
      dirty thief who has brought all this about. What could you have done to
      prevent it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I would have stayed if it could have availed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It could not, and you know it. So why repine?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is more than that to it,&rdquo; groaned Blood. &ldquo;What now? What remains?
      Loyal service with the English was made impossible for me. Loyal service
      with France has led to this; and that is equally impossible hereafter.
      What to live clean, I believe the only thing is to go and offer my sword
      to the King of Spain.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But something remained&mdash;the last thing that he could have expected&mdash;something
      towards which they were rapidly sailing over the tropical, sunlit sea. All
      this against which he now inveighed so bitterly was but a necessary stage
      in the shaping of his odd destiny.
    </p>
    <p>
      Setting a course for Hispaniola, since they judged that thither must
      Rivarol go to refit before attempting to cross to France, the Arabella and
      the Elizabeth ploughed briskly northward with a moderately favourable wind
      for two days and nights without ever catching a glimpse of their quarry.
      The third dawn brought with it a haze which circumscribed their range of
      vision to something between two and three miles, and deepened their
      growing vexation and their apprehension that M. de Rivarol might escape
      them altogether.
    </p>
    <p>
      Their position then&mdash;according to Pitt&rsquo;s log&mdash;was approximately
      75 deg. 30&rsquo; W. Long. by 17 deg. 45&rsquo; N. Lat., so that they had Jamaica on
      their larboard beam some thirty miles to westward, and, indeed, away to
      the northwest, faintly visible as a bank of clouds, appeared the great
      ridge of the Blue Mountains whose peaks were thrust into the clear upper
      air above the low-lying haze. The wind, to which they were sailing very
      close, was westerly, and it bore to their ears a booming sound which in
      less experienced ears might have passed for the breaking of surf upon a
      lee shore.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Guns!&rdquo; said Pitt, who stood with Blood upon the quarter-deck. Blood
      nodded, listening.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ten miles away, perhaps fifteen&mdash;somewhere off Port Royal, I should
      judge,&rdquo; Pitt added. Then he looked at his captain. &ldquo;Does it concern us?&rdquo;
       he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Guns off Port Royal... that should argue Colonel Bishop at work. And
      against whom should he be in action but against friends of ours I think it
      may concern us. Anyway, we&rsquo;ll stand in to investigate. Bid them put the
      helm over.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Close-hauled they tacked aweather, guided by the sound of combat, which
      grew in volume and definition as they approached it. Thus for an hour,
      perhaps. Then, as, telescope to his eye, Blood raked the haze, expecting
      at any moment to behold the battling ships, the guns abruptly ceased.
    </p>
    <p>
      They held to their course, nevertheless, with all hands on deck, eagerly,
      anxiously scanning the sea ahead. And presently an object loomed into
      view, which soon defined itself for a great ship on fire. As the Arabella
      with the Elizabeth following closely raced nearer on their north-westerly
      tack, the outlines of the blazing vessel grew clearer. Presently her masts
      stood out sharp and black above the smoke and flames, and through his
      telescope Blood made out plainly the pennon of St. George fluttering from
      her maintop.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;An English ship!&rdquo; he cried.
    </p>
    <p>
      He scanned the seas for the conqueror in the battle of which this grim
      evidence was added to that of the sounds they had heard, and when at last,
      as they drew closer to the doomed vessel, they made out the shadowy
      outlines of three tall ships, some three or four miles away, standing in
      toward Port Royal, the first and natural assumption was that these ships
      must belong to the Jamaica fleet, and that the burning vessel was a
      defeated buccaneer, and because of this they sped on to pick up the three
      boats that were standing away from the blazing hulk. But Pitt, who through
      the telescope was examining the receding squadron, observed things
      apparent only to the eye of the trained mariner, and made the incredible
      announcement that the largest of these three vessels was Rivarol&rsquo;s
      Victorieuse.
    </p>
    <p>
      They took in sail and hove to as they came up with the drifting boats,
      laden to capacity with survivors. And there were others adrift on some of
      the spars and wreckage with which the sea was strewn, who must be rescued.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0029" id="link2HCH0029">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XXIX. THE SERVICE OF KING WILLIAM
    </h2>
    <p>
      One of the boats bumped alongside the Arabella, and up the entrance ladder
      came first a slight, spruce little gentleman in a coat of mulberry satin
      laced with gold, whose wizened, yellow, rather peevish face was framed in
      a heavy black periwig. His modish and costly apparel had nowise suffered
      by the adventure through which he had passed, and he carried himself with
      the easy assurance of a man of rank. Here, quite clearly, was no
      buccaneer. He was closely followed by one who in every particular, save
      that of age, was his physical opposite, corpulent in a brawny, vigorous
      way, with a full, round, weather-beaten face whose mouth was humourous and
      whose eyes were blue and twinkling. He was well dressed without
      fripperies, and bore with him an air of vigorous authority.
    </p>
    <p>
      As the little man stepped from the ladder into the waist, whither Captain
      Blood had gone to receive him, his sharp, ferrety dark eyes swept the
      uncouth ranks of the assembled crew of the Arabella.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And where the devil may I be now?&rdquo; he demanded irritably. &ldquo;Are you
      English, or what the devil are you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Myself, I have the honour to be Irish, sir. My name is Blood&mdash;Captain
      Peter Blood, and this is my ship the Arabella, all very much at your
      service.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Blood!&rdquo; shrilled the little man. &ldquo;O &lsquo;Sblood! A pirate!&rdquo; He swung to the
      Colossus who followed him&mdash;&ldquo;A damned pirate, van der Kuylen. Rend my
      vitals, but we&rsquo;re come from Scylla to Charybdis.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So?&rdquo; said the other gutturally, and again, &ldquo;So?&rdquo; Then the humour of it
      took him, and he yielded to it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Damme! What&rsquo;s to laugh at, you porpoise?&rdquo; spluttered mulberry-coat. &ldquo;A
      fine tale this&rsquo;ll make at home! Admiral van der Kuylen first loses his
      fleet in the night, then has his flagship fired under him by a French
      squadron, and ends all by being captured by a pirate. I&rsquo;m glad you find it
      matter for laughter. Since for my sins I happen to be with you, I&rsquo;m damned
      if I do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There&rsquo;s a misapprehension, if I may make so bold as to point it out,&rdquo; put
      in Blood quietly. &ldquo;You are not captured, gentlemen; you are rescued. When
      you realize it, perhaps it will occur to you to acknowledge the
      hospitality I am offering you. It may be poor, but it is the best at my
      disposal.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The fierce little gentleman stared at him. &ldquo;Damme! Do you permit yourself
      to be ironical?&rdquo; he disapproved him, and possibly with a view to
      correcting any such tendency, proceeded to introduce himself. &ldquo;I am Lord
      Willoughby, King William&rsquo;s Governor-General of the West Indies, and this
      is Admiral van der Kuylen, commander of His Majesty&rsquo;s West Indian fleet,
      at present mislaid somewhere in this damned Caribbean Sea.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;King William?&rdquo; quoth Blood, and he was conscious that Pitt and Dyke, who
      were behind him, now came edging nearer, sharing his own wonder. &ldquo;And who
      may be King William, and of what may he be King?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What&rsquo;s that?&rdquo; In a wonder greater than his own, Lord Willoughby stared
      back at him. At last: &ldquo;I am alluding to His Majesty King William III&mdash;William
      of Orange&mdash;who, with Queen Mary, has been ruling England for two
      months and more.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was a moment&rsquo;s silence, until Blood realized what he was being told.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;D&rsquo;ye mean, sir, that they&rsquo;ve roused themselves at home, and kicked out
      that scoundrel James and his gang of ruffians?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Admiral van der Kuylen nudged his lordship, a humourous twinkle in his
      blue eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;His bolitics are fery sound, I dink,&rdquo; he growled.
    </p>
    <p>
      His lordship&rsquo;s smile brought lines like gashes into his leathery cheeks.
      &ldquo;&lsquo;Slife! hadn&rsquo;t you heard? Where the devil have you been at all?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Out of touch with the world for the last three months,&rdquo; said Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Stab me! You must have been. And in that three months the world has
      undergone some changes.&rdquo; Briefly he added an account of them. King James
      was fled to France, and living under the protection of King Louis,
      wherefore, and for other reasons, England had joined the league against
      her, and was now at war with France. That was how it happened that the
      Dutch Admiral&rsquo;s flagship had been attacked by M. de Rivarol&rsquo;s fleet that
      morning, from which it clearly followed that in his voyage from Cartagena,
      the Frenchman must have spoken some ship that gave him the news.
    </p>
    <p>
      After that, with renewed assurances that aboard his ship they should be
      honourably entreated, Captain Blood led the Governor-General and the
      Admiral to his cabin, what time the work of rescue went on. The news he
      had received had set Blood&rsquo;s mind in a turmoil. If King James was
      dethroned and banished, there was an end to his own outlawry for his
      alleged share in an earlier attempt to drive out that tyrant. It became
      possible for him to return home and take up his life again at the point
      where it was so unfortunately interrupted four years ago. He was dazzled
      by the prospect so abruptly opened out to him. The thing so filled his
      mind, moved him so deeply, that he must afford it expression. In doing so,
      he revealed of himself more than he knew or intended to the astute little
      gentleman who watched him so keenly the while.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Go home, if you will,&rdquo; said his lordship, when Blood paused. &ldquo;You may be
      sure that none will harass you on the score of your piracy, considering
      what it was that drove you to it. But why be in haste? We have heard of
      you, to be sure, and we know of what you are capable upon the seas. Here
      is a great chance for you, since you declare yourself sick of piracy.
      Should you choose to serve King William out here during this war, your
      knowledge of the West Indies should render you a very valuable servant to
      His Majesty&rsquo;s Government, which you would not find ungrateful. You should
      consider it. Damme, sir, I repeat: it is a great chance you are given.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That your lordship gives me,&rdquo; Blood amended, &ldquo;I am very grateful. But at
      the moment, I confess, I can consider nothing but this great news. It
      alters the shape of the world. I must accustom myself to view it as it now
      is, before I can determine my own place in it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Pitt came in to report that the work of rescue was at an end, and the men
      picked up&mdash;some forty-five in all&mdash;safe aboard the two buccaneer
      ships. He asked for orders. Blood rose.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am negligent of your lordship&rsquo;s concerns in my consideration of my own.
      You&rsquo;ll be wishing me to land you at Port Royal.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;At Port Royal?&rdquo; The little man squirmed wrathfully on his seat.
      Wrathfully and at length he informed Blood that they had put into Port
      Royal last evening to find its Deputy-Governor absent. &ldquo;He had gone on
      some wild-goose chase to Tortuga after buccaneers, taking the whole of the
      fleet with him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood stared in surprise a moment; then yielded to laughter.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He went, I suppose, before news reached him of the change of government
      at home, and the war with France?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He did not,&rdquo; snapped Willoughby. &ldquo;He was informed of both, and also of my
      coming before he set out.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, impossible!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So I should have thought. But I have the information from a Major Mallard
      whom I found in Port Royal, apparently governing in this fool&rsquo;s absence.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But is he mad, to leave his post at such a time?&rdquo; Blood was amazed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Taking the whole fleet with him, pray remember, and leaving the place
      open to French attack. That is the sort of Deputy-Governor that the late
      Government thought fit to appoint: an epitome of its misrule, damme! He
      leaves Port Royal unguarded save by a ramshackle fort that can be reduced
      to rubble in an hour. Stab me! It&rsquo;s unbelievable!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The lingering smile faded from Blood&rsquo;s face. &ldquo;Is Rivarol aware of this?&rdquo;
       he cried sharply.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was the Dutch Admiral who answered him. &ldquo;Vould he go dere if he were
      not? M. de Rivarol he take some of our men prisoners. Berhabs dey dell
      him. Berhabs he make dem tell. Id is a great obbordunidy.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship snarled like a mountain-cat. &ldquo;That rascal Bishop shall answer
      for it with his head if there&rsquo;s any mischief done through this desertion
      of his post. What if it were deliberate, eh? What if he is more knave than
      fool? What if this is his way of serving King James, from whom he held his
      office?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood was generous. &ldquo;Hardly so much. It was just vindictiveness
      that urged him. It&rsquo;s myself he&rsquo;s hunting at Tortuga, my lord. But, I&rsquo;m
      thinking that while he&rsquo;s about it, I&rsquo;d best be looking after Jamaica for
      King William.&rdquo; He laughed, with more mirth than he had used in the last
      two months.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Set a course for Port Royal, Jeremy, and make all speed. We&rsquo;ll be level
      yet with M. de Rivarol, and wipe off some other scores at the same time.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Both Lord Willoughby and the Admiral were on their feet.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But you are not equal to it, damme!&rdquo; cried his lordship. &ldquo;Any one of the
      Frenchman&rsquo;s three ships is a match for both yours, my man.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In guns&mdash;aye,&rdquo; said Blood, and he smiled. &ldquo;But there&rsquo;s more than
      guns that matter in these affairs. If your lordship would like to see an
      action fought at sea as an action should be fought, this is your
      opportunity.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Both stared at him. &ldquo;But the odds!&rdquo; his lordship insisted.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Id is imbossible,&rdquo; said van der Kuylen, shaking his great head.
      &ldquo;Seamanship is imbordand. Bud guns is guns.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I can&rsquo;t defeat him, I can sink my own ships in the channel, and block
      him in until Bishop gets back from his wild-goose chase with his squadron,
      or until your own fleet turns up.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And what good will that be, pray?&rdquo; demanded Willoughby.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll be after telling you. Rivarol is a fool to take this chance,
      considering what he&rsquo;s got aboard. He carried in his hold the treasure
      plundered from Cartagena, amounting to forty million livres.&rdquo; They jumped
      at the mention of that colossal sum. &ldquo;He has gone into Port Royal with it.
      Whether he defeats me or not, he doesn&rsquo;t come out of Port Royal with it
      again, and sooner or later that treasure shall find its way into King
      William&rsquo;s coffers, after, say, one fifth share shall have been paid to my
      buccaneers. Is that agreed, Lord Willoughby?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His lordship stood up, and shaking back the cloud of lace from his wrist,
      held out a delicate white hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Captain Blood, I discover greatness in you,&rdquo; said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sure it&rsquo;s your lordship has the fine sight to perceive it,&rdquo; laughed the
      Captain.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, yes! Bud how vill you do id?&rdquo; growled van der Kuylen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Come on deck, and it&rsquo;s a demonstration I&rsquo;ll be giving you before the
      day&rsquo;s much older.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0030" id="link2HCH0030">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XXX. THE LAST FIGHT OF THE ARABELLA
    </h2>
    <p>
      &ldquo;VHY do you vait, my friend?&rdquo; growled van der Kuylen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye&mdash;in God&rsquo;s name!&rdquo; snapped Willoughby.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was the afternoon of that same day, and the two buccaneer ships rocked
      gently with idly flapping sails under the lee of the long spit of land
      forming the great natural harbour of Port Royal, and less than a mile from
      the straits leading into it, which the fort commanded. It was two hours
      and more since they had brought up thereabouts, having crept thither
      unobserved by the city and by M. de Rivarol&rsquo;s ships, and all the time the
      air had been aquiver with the roar of guns from sea and land, announcing
      that battle was joined between the French and the defenders of Port Royal.
      That long, inactive waiting was straining the nerves of both Lord
      Willoughby and van der Kuylen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You said you vould show us zome vine dings. Vhere are dese vine dings?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood faced them, smiling confidently. He was arrayed for battle, in
      back-and-breast of black steel. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll not be trying your patience much
      longer. Indeed, I notice already a slackening in the fire. But it&rsquo;s this
      way, now: there&rsquo;s nothing at all to be gained by precipitancy, and a deal
      to be gained by delaying, as I shall show you, I hope.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Lord Willoughby eyed him suspiciously. &ldquo;Ye think that in the meantime
      Bishop may come back or Admiral van der Kuylen&rsquo;s fleet appear?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sure, now, I&rsquo;m thinking nothing of the kind. What I&rsquo;m thinking is that in
      this engagement with the fort M. de Rivarol, who&rsquo;s a lubberly fellow, as
      I&rsquo;ve reason to know, will be taking some damage that may make the odds a
      trifle more even. Sure, it&rsquo;ll be time enough to go forward when the fort
      has shot its bolt.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aye, aye!&rdquo; The sharp approval came like a cough from the little
      Governor-General. &ldquo;I perceive your object, and I believe ye&rsquo;re entirely
      right. Ye have the qualities of a great commander, Captain Blood. I beg
      your pardon for having misunderstood you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And that&rsquo;s very handsome of your lordship. Ye see, I have some experience
      of this kind of action, and whilst I&rsquo;ll take any risk that I must, I&rsquo;ll
      take none that I needn&rsquo;t. But....&rdquo; He broke off to listen. &ldquo;Aye, I was
      right. The fire&rsquo;s slackening. It&rsquo;ll mean the end of Mallard&rsquo;s resistance
      in the fort. Ho there, Jeremy!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He leaned on the carved rail and issued orders crisply. The bo&rsquo;sun&rsquo;s pipe
      shrilled out, and in a moment the ship that had seemed to slumber there,
      awoke to life. Came the padding of feet along the decks, the creaking of
      blocks and the hoisting of sail. The helm was put over hard, and in a
      moment they were moving, the Elizabeth following, ever in obedience to the
      signals from the Arabella, whilst Ogle the gunner, whom he had summoned,
      was receiving Blood&rsquo;s final instructions before plunging down to his
      station on the main deck.
    </p>
    <p>
      Within a quarter of an hour they had rounded the head, and stood in to the
      harbour mouth, within saker shot of Rivarol&rsquo;s three ships, to which they
      now abruptly disclosed themselves.
    </p>
    <p>
      Where the fort had stood they now beheld a smoking rubbish heap, and the
      victorious Frenchman with the lily standard trailing from his mastheads
      was sweeping forward to snatch the rich prize whose defences he had
      shattered.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood scanned the French ships, and chuckled. The Victorieuse and the
      Medusa appeared to have taken no more than a few scars; but the third
      ship, the Baleine, listing heavily to larboard so as to keep the great
      gash in her starboard well above water, was out of account.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You see!&rdquo; he cried to van der Kuylen, and without waiting for the
      Dutchman&rsquo;s approving grunt, he shouted an order: &ldquo;Helm, hard-a-port!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The sight of that great red ship with her gilt beak-head and open ports
      swinging broadside on must have given check to Rivarol&rsquo;s soaring
      exultation. Yet before he could move to give an order, before he could
      well resolve what order to give, a volcano of fire and metal burst upon
      him from the buccaneers, and his decks were swept by the murderous scythe
      of the broadside. The Arabella held to her course, giving place to the
      Elizabeth, which, following closely, executed the same manoeuver. And then
      whilst still the Frenchmen were confused, panic-stricken by an attack that
      took them so utterly by surprise, the Arabella had gone about, and was
      returning in her tracks, presenting now her larboard guns, and loosing her
      second broadside in the wake of the first. Came yet another broadside from
      the Elizabeth and then the Arabella&rsquo;s trumpeter sent a call across the
      water, which Hagthorpe perfectly understood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On, now, Jeremy!&rdquo; cried Blood. &ldquo;Straight into them before they recover
      their wits. Stand by, there! Prepare to board! Hayton ... the grapnels!
      And pass the word to the gunner in the prow to fire as fast as he can
      load.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He discarded his feathered hat, and covered himself with a steel
      head-piece, which a negro lad brought him. He meant to lead this
      boarding-party in person. Briskly he explained himself to his two guests.
      &ldquo;Boarding is our only chance here. We are too heavily outgunned.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Of this the fullest demonstration followed quickly. The Frenchmen having
      recovered their wits at last, both ships swung broadside on, and
      concentrating upon the Arabella as the nearer and heavier and therefore
      more immediately dangerous of their two opponents, volleyed upon her
      jointly at almost the same moment.
    </p>
    <p>
      Unlike the buccaneers, who had fired high to cripple their enemies above
      decks, the French fifed low to smash the hull of their assailant. The
      Arabella rocked and staggered under that terrific hammering, although Pitt
      kept her headed towards the French so that she should offer the narrowest
      target. For a moment she seemed to hesitate, then she plunged forward
      again, her beak-head in splinters, her forecastle smashed, and a gaping
      hole forward, that was only just above the water-line. Indeed, to make her
      safe from bilging, Blood ordered a prompt jettisoning of the forward guns,
      anchors, and water-casks and whatever else was moveable.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meanwhile, the Frenchmen going about, gave the like reception to the
      Elizabeth. The Arabella, indifferently served by the wind, pressed forward
      to come to grips. But before she could accomplish her object, the
      Victorieuse had loaded her starboard guns again, and pounded her advancing
      enemy with a second broadside at close quarters. Amid the thunder of
      cannon, the rending of timbers, and the screams of maimed men, the
      half-necked Arabella plunged and reeled into the cloud of smoke that
      concealed her prey, and then from Hayton went up the cry that she was
      going down by the head.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood&rsquo;s heart stood still. And then in that very moment of his despair,
      the blue and gold flank of the Victorieuse loomed through the smoke. But
      even as he caught that enheartening glimpse he perceived, too, how
      sluggish now was their advance, and how with every second it grew more
      sluggish. They must sink before they reached her.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus, with an oath, opined the Dutch Admiral, and from Lord Willoughby
      there was a word of blame for Blood&rsquo;s seamanship in having risked all upon
      this gambler&rsquo;s throw of boarding.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There was no other chance!&rdquo; cried Blood, in broken-hearted frenzy. &ldquo;If ye
      say it was desperate and foolhardy, why, so it was; but the occasion and
      the means demanded nothing less. I fail within an ace of victory.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      But they had not yet completely failed. Hayton himself, and a score of
      sturdy rogues whom his whistle had summoned, were crouching for shelter
      amid the wreckage of the forecastle with grapnels ready. Within seven or
      eight yards of the Victorieuse, when their way seemed spent, and their
      forward deck already awash under the eyes of the jeering, cheering
      Frenchmen, those men leapt up and forward, and hurled their grapnels
      across the chasm. Of the four they flung, two reached the Frenchman&rsquo;s
      decks, and fastened there. Swift as thought itself, was then the action of
      those sturdy, experienced buccaneers. Unhesitatingly all threw themselves
      upon the chain of one of those grapnels, neglecting the other, and heaved
      upon it with all their might to warp the ships together. Blood, watching
      from his own quarter-deck, sent out his voice in a clarion call:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Musketeers to the prow!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The musketeers, at their station at the waist, obeyed him with the speed
      of men who know that in obedience is the only hope of life. Fifty of them
      dashed forward instantly, and from the ruins of the forecastle they blazed
      over the heads of Hayton&rsquo;s men, mowing down the French soldiers who,
      unable to dislodge the irons, firmly held where they had deeply bitten
      into the timbers of the Victorieuse, were themselves preparing to fire
      upon the grapnel crew.
    </p>
    <p>
      Starboard to starboard the two ships swung against each other with a
      jarring thud. By then Blood was down in the waist, judging and acting with
      the hurricane speed the occasion demanded. Sail had been lowered by
      slashing away the ropes that held the yards. The advance guard of
      boarders, a hundred strong, was ordered to the poop, and his grapnel-men
      were posted, and prompt to obey his command at the very moment of impact.
      As a result, the foundering Arabella was literally kept afloat by the
      half-dozen grapnels that in an instant moored her firmly to the
      Victorieuse.
    </p>
    <p>
      Willoughby and van der Kuylen on the poop had watched in breathless
      amazement the speed and precision with which Blood and his desperate crew
      had gone to work. And now he came racing up, his bugler sounding the
      charge, the main host of the buccaneers following him, whilst the
      vanguard, led by the gunner Ogle, who had been driven from his guns by
      water in the gun-deck, leapt shouting to the prow of the Victorieuse, to
      whose level the high poop of the water-logged Arabella had sunk. Led now
      by Blood himself, they launched themselves upon the French like hounds
      upon the stag they have brought to bay. After them went others, until all
      had gone, and none but Willoughby and the Dutchman were left to watch the
      fight from the quarter-deck of the abandoned Arabella.
    </p>
    <p>
      For fully half-an-hour that battle raged aboard the Frenchman. Beginning
      in the prow, it surged through the forecastle to the waist, where it
      reached a climax of fury. The French resisted stubbornly, and they had the
      advantage of numbers to encourage them. But for all their stubborn valour,
      they ended by being pressed back and back across the decks that were
      dangerously canted to starboard by the pull of the water-logged Arabella.
      The buccaneers fought with the desperate fury of men who know that retreat
      is impossible, for there was no ship to which they could retreat, and here
      they must prevail and make the Victorieuse their own, or perish.
    </p>
    <p>
      And their own they made her in the end, and at a cost of nearly half their
      numbers. Driven to the quarter-deck, the surviving defenders, urged on by
      the infuriated Rivarol, maintained awhile their desperate resistance. But
      in the end, Rivarol went down with a bullet in his head, and the French
      remnant, numbering scarcely a score of whole men, called for quarter.
    </p>
    <p>
      Even then the labours of Blood&rsquo;s men were not at an end. The Elizabeth and
      the Medusa were tight-locked, and Hagthorpe&rsquo;s followers were being driven
      back aboard their own ship for the second time. Prompt measures were
      demanded. Whilst Pitt and his seamen bore their part with the sails, and
      Ogle went below with a gun-crew, Blood ordered the grapnels to be loosed
      at once. Lord Willoughby and the Admiral were already aboard the
      Victorieuse. As they swung off to the rescue of Hagthorpe, Blood, from the
      quarter-deck of the conquered vessel, looked his last upon the ship that
      had served him so well, the ship that had become to him almost as a part
      of himself. A moment she rocked after her release, then slowly and
      gradually settled down, the water gurgling and eddying about her topmasts,
      all that remained visible to mark the spot where she had met her death.
    </p>
    <p>
      As he stood there, above the ghastly shambles in the waist of the
      Victorieuse, some one spoke behind him. &ldquo;I think, Captain Blood, that it
      is necessary I should beg your pardon for the second time. Never before
      have I seen the impossible made possible by resource and valour, or
      victory so gallantly snatched from defeat.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He turned, and presented to Lord Willoughby a formidable front. His
      head-piece was gone, his breastplate dinted, his right sleeve a rag
      hanging from his shoulder about a naked arm. He was splashed from head to
      foot with blood, and there was blood from a scalp-wound that he had taken
      matting his hair and mixing with the grime of powder on his face to render
      him unrecognizable.
    </p>
    <p>
      But from that horrible mask two vivid eyes looked out preternaturally
      bright, and from those eyes two tears had ploughed each a furrow through
      the filth of his cheeks.
    </p>
    <p>
      <a name="link2HCH0031" id="link2HCH0031">
      <!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      CHAPTER XXXI. HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR
    </h2>
    <p>
      When the cost of that victory came to be counted, it was found that of
      three hundred and twenty buccaneers who had left Cartagena with Captain
      Blood, a bare hundred remained sound and whole. The Elizabeth had suffered
      so seriously that it was doubtful if she could ever again be rendered
      seaworthy, and Hagthorpe, who had so gallantly commanded her in that last
      action, was dead. Against this, on the other side of the account, stood
      the facts that, with a far inferior force and by sheer skill and desperate
      valour, Blood&rsquo;s buccaneers had saved Jamaica from bombardment and pillage,
      and they had captured the fleet of M. de Rivarol, and seized for the
      benefit of King William the splendid treasure which she carried.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was not until the evening of the following day that van der Kuylen&rsquo;s
      truant fleet of nine ships came to anchor in the harbour of Port Royal,
      and its officers, Dutch and English, were made acquainted with their
      Admiral&rsquo;s true opinion of their worth.
    </p>
    <p>
      Six ships of that fleet were instantly refitted for sea. There were other
      West Indian settlements demanding the visit of inspection of the new
      Governor-General, and Lord Willoughby was in haste to sail for the
      Antilles.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And meanwhile,&rdquo; he complained to his Admiral, &ldquo;I am detained here by the
      absence of this fool of a Deputy-Governor.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So?&rdquo; said van der Kuylen. &ldquo;But vhy should dad dedam you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That I may break the dog as he deserves, and appoint his successor in
      some man gifted with a sense of where his duty lies, and with the ability
      to perform it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aha! But id is not necessary you remain for dat. And he vill require no
      insdrucshons, dis one. He vill know how to make Port Royal safe, bedder
      nor you or me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You mean Blood?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of gourse. Could any man be bedder? You haf seen vhad he can do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You think so, too, eh? Egad! I had thought of it; and, rip me, why not?
      He&rsquo;s a better man than Morgan, and Morgan was made Governor.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood was sent for. He came, spruce and debonair once more, having
      exploited the resources of Port Royal so to render himself. He was a
      trifle dazzled by the honour proposed to him, when Lord Willoughby made it
      known. It was so far beyond anything that he had dreamed, and he was
      assailed by doubts of his capacity to undertake so onerous a charge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Damme!&rdquo; snapped Willoughby, &ldquo;Should I offer it unless I were satisfied of
      your capacity? If that&rsquo;s your only objection....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is not, my lord. I had counted upon going home, so I had. I am hungry
      for the green lanes of England.&rdquo; He sighed. &ldquo;There will be apple-blossoms
      in the orchards of Somerset.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Apple-blossoms!&rdquo; His lordship&rsquo;s voice shot up like a rocket, and cracked
      on the word. &ldquo;What the devil...? Apple-blossoms!&rdquo; He looked at van der
      Kuylen.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Admiral raised his brows and pursed his heavy lips. His eyes twinkled
      humourously in his great face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So!&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Fery boedical!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      My lord wheeled fiercely upon Captain Blood. &ldquo;You&rsquo;ve a past score to wipe
      out, my man!&rdquo; he admonished him. &ldquo;You&rsquo;ve done something towards it, I
      confess; and you&rsquo;ve shown your quality in doing it. That&rsquo;s why I offer you
      the governorship of Jamaica in His Majesty&rsquo;s name&mdash;because I account
      you the fittest man for the office that I have seen.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Blood bowed low. &ldquo;Your lordship is very good. But....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Tchah! There&rsquo;s no &lsquo;but&rsquo; to it. If you want your past forgotten, and your
      future assured, this is your chance. And you are not to treat it lightly
      on account of apple-blossoms or any other damned sentimental nonsense.
      Your duty lies here, at least for as long as the war lasts. When the war&rsquo;s
      over, you may get back to Somerset and cider or your native Ireland and
      its potheen; but until then you&rsquo;ll make the best of Jamaica and rum.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Van der Kuylen exploded into laughter. But from Blood the pleasantry
      elicited no smile. He remained solemn to the point of glumness. His
      thoughts were on Miss Bishop, who was somewhere here in this very house in
      which they stood, but whom he had not seen since his arrival. Had she but
      shown him some compassion....
    </p>
    <p>
      And then the rasping voice of Willoughby cut in again, upbraiding him for
      his hesitation, pointing out to him his incredible stupidity in trifling
      with such a golden opportunity as this. He stiffened and bowed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My lord, you are in the right. I am a fool. But don&rsquo;t be accounting me an
      ingrate as well. If I have hesitated, it is because there are
      considerations with which I will not trouble your lordship.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Apple-blossoms, I suppose?&rdquo; sniffed his lordship.
    </p>
    <p>
      This time Blood laughed, but there was still a lingering wistfulness in
      his eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It shall be as you wish&mdash;and very gratefully, let me assure your
      lordship. I shall know how to earn His Majesty&rsquo;s approbation. You may
      depend upon my loyal service.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I didn&rsquo;t, I shouldn&rsquo;t offer you this governorship.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Thus it was settled. Blood&rsquo;s commission was made out and sealed in the
      presence of Mallard, the Commandant, and the other officers of the
      garrison, who looked on in round-eyed astonishment, but kept their
      thoughts to themselves.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now ve can aboud our business go,&rdquo; said van der Kuylen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We sail to-morrow morning,&rdquo; his lordship announced.
    </p>
    <p>
      Blood was startled.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And Colonel Bishop?&rdquo; he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He becomes your affair. You are now the Governor. You will deal with him
      as you think proper on his return. Hang him from his own yardarm. He
      deserves it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Isn&rsquo;t the task a trifle invidious?&rdquo; wondered Blood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very well. I&rsquo;ll leave a letter for him. I hope he&rsquo;ll like it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Blood took up his duties at once. There was much to be done to
      place Port Royal in a proper state of defence, after what had happened
      there. He made an inspection of the ruined fort, and issued instructions
      for the work upon it, which was to be started immediately. Next he ordered
      the careening of the three French vessels that they might be rendered
      seaworthy once more. Finally, with the sanction of Lord Willoughby, he
      marshalled his buccaneers and surrendered to them one fifth of the
      captured treasure, leaving it to their choice thereafter either to depart
      or to enrol themselves in the service of King William.
    </p>
    <p>
      A score of them elected to remain, and amongst these were Jeremy Pitt,
      Ogle, and Dyke, whose outlawry, like Blood&rsquo;s, had come to an end with the
      downfall of King James. They were&mdash;saving old Wolverstone, who had
      been left behind at Cartagena&mdash;the only survivors of that band of
      rebels-convict who had left Barbados over three years ago in the Cinco
      Llagas.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the following morning, whilst van der Kuylen&rsquo;s fleet was making finally
      ready for sea, Blood sat in the spacious whitewashed room that was the
      Governor&rsquo;s office, when Major Mallard brought him word that Bishop&rsquo;s
      homing squadron was in sight.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is very well,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;I am glad he comes before Lord
      Willoughby&rsquo;s departure. The orders, Major, are that you place him under
      arrest the moment he steps ashore. Then bring him here to me. A moment.&rdquo;
       He wrote a hurried note. &ldquo;That to Lord Willoughby aboard Admiral van der
      Kuylen&rsquo;s flagship.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Major Mallard saluted and departed. Peter Blood sat back in his chair and
      stared at the ceiling, frowning. Time moved on. Came a tap at the door,
      and an elderly negro slave presented himself. Would his excellency receive
      Miss Bishop?
    </p>
    <p>
      His excellency changed colour. He sat quite still, staring at the negro a
      moment, conscious that his pulses were drumming in a manner wholly unusual
      to them. Then quietly he assented.
    </p>
    <p>
      He rose when she entered, and if he was not as pale as she was, it was
      because his tan dissembled it. For a moment there was silence between
      them, as they stood looking each at the other. Then she moved forward, and
      began at last to speak, haltingly, in an unsteady voice, amazing in one
      usually so calm and deliberate.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I... I... Major Mallard has just told me....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Major Mallard exceeded his duty,&rdquo; said Blood, and because of the effort
      he made to steady his voice it sounded harsh and unduly loud.
    </p>
    <p>
      He saw her start, and stop, and instantly made amends. &ldquo;You alarm yourself
      without reason, Miss Bishop. Whatever may lie between me and your uncle,
      you may be sure that I shall not follow the example he has set me. I shall
      not abuse my position to prosecute a private vengeance. On the contrary, I
      shall abuse it to protect him. Lord Willoughby&rsquo;s recommendation to me is
      that I shall treat him without mercy. My own intention is to send him back
      to his plantation in Barbados.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She came slowly forward now. &ldquo;I... I am glad that you will do that. Glad,
      above all, for your own sake.&rdquo; She held out her hand to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      He considered it critically. Then he bowed over it. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll not presume to
      take it in the hand of a thief and a pirate,&rdquo; said he bitterly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are no longer that,&rdquo; she said, and strove to smile.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yet I owe no thanks to you that I am not,&rdquo; he answered. &ldquo;I think there&rsquo;s
      no more to be said, unless it be to add the assurance that Lord Julian
      Wade has also nothing to apprehend from me. That, no doubt, will be the
      assurance that your peace of mind requires?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For your own sake&mdash;yes. But for your own sake only. I would not have
      you do anything mean or dishonouring.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thief and pirate though I be?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She clenched her hand, and made a little gesture of despair and
      impatience.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you never forgive me those words?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m finding it a trifle hard, I confess. But what does it matter, when
      all is said?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her clear hazel eyes considered him a moment wistfully. Then she put out
      her hand again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am going, Captain Blood. Since you are so generous to my uncle, I shall
      be returning to Barbados with him. We are not like to meet again&mdash;ever.
      Is it impossible that we should part friends? Once I wronged you, I know.
      And I have said that I am sorry. Won&rsquo;t you... won&rsquo;t you say &lsquo;good-bye&rsquo;?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He seemed to rouse himself, to shake off a mantle of deliberate harshness.
      He took the hand she proffered. Retaining it, he spoke, his eyes sombrely,
      wistfully considering her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are returning to Barbados?&rdquo; he said slowly. &ldquo;Will Lord Julian be
      going with you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why do you ask me that?&rdquo; she confronted him quite fearlessly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sure, now, didn&rsquo;t he give you my message, or did he bungle it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No. He didn&rsquo;t bungle it. He gave it me in your own words. It touched me
      very deeply. It made me see clearly my error and my injustice. I owe it to
      you that I should say this by way of amend. I judged too harshly where it
      was a presumption to judge at all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was still holding her hand. &ldquo;And Lord Julian, then?&rdquo; he asked, his eyes
      watching her, bright as sapphires in that copper-coloured face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lord Julian will no doubt be going home to England. There is nothing more
      for him to do out here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But didn&rsquo;t he ask you to go with him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He did. I forgive you the impertinence.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A wild hope leapt to life within him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And you? Glory be, ye&rsquo;ll not be telling me ye refused to become my lady,
      when....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh! You are insufferable!&rdquo; She tore her hand free and backed away from
      him. &ldquo;I should not have come. Good-bye!&rdquo; She was speeding to the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      He sprang after her, and caught her. Her face flamed, and her eyes stabbed
      him like daggers. &ldquo;These are pirate&rsquo;s ways, I think! Release me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Arabella!&rdquo; he cried on a note of pleading. &ldquo;Are ye meaning it? Must I
      release ye? Must I let ye go and never set eyes on ye again? Or will ye
      stay and make this exile endurable until we can go home together? Och,
      ye&rsquo;re crying now! What have I said to make ye cry, my dear?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I... I thought you&rsquo;d never say it,&rdquo; she mocked him through her tears.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, now, ye see there was Lord Julian, a fine figure of a....&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There was never, never anybody but you, Peter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They had, of course, a deal to say thereafter, so much, indeed, that they
      sat down to say it, whilst time sped on, and Governor Blood forgot the
      duties of his office. He had reached home at last. His odyssey was ended.
    </p>
    <p>
      And meanwhile Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s fleet had come to anchor, and the Colonel
      had landed on the mole, a disgruntled man to be disgruntled further yet.
      He was accompanied ashore by Lord Julian Wade.
    </p>
    <p>
      A corporal&rsquo;s guard was drawn up to receive him, and in advance of this
      stood Major Mallard and two others who were unknown to the
      Deputy-Governor: one slight and elegant, the other big and brawny.
    </p>
    <p>
      Major Mallard advanced. &ldquo;Colonel Bishop, I have orders to arrest you. Your
      sword, sir!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By order of the Governor of Jamaica,&rdquo; said the elegant little man behind
      Major Mallard. Bishop swung to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The Governor? Ye&rsquo;re mad!&rdquo; He looked from one to the other. &ldquo;I am the
      Governor.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You were,&rdquo; said the little man dryly. &ldquo;But we&rsquo;ve changed that in your
      absence. You&rsquo;re broke for abandoning your post without due cause, and
      thereby imperiling the settlement over which you had charge. It&rsquo;s a
      serious matter, Colonel Bishop, as you may find. Considering that you held
      your office from the Government of King James, it is even possible that a
      charge of treason might lie against you. It rests with your successor
      entirely whether ye&rsquo;re hanged or not.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Bishop rapped out an oath, and then, shaken by a sudden fear: &ldquo;Who the
      devil may you be?&rdquo; he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am Lord Willoughby, Governor General of His Majesty&rsquo;s colonies in the
      West Indies. You were informed, I think, of my coming.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The remains of Bishop&rsquo;s anger fell from him like a cloak. He broke into a
      sweat of fear. Behind him Lord Julian looked on, his handsome face
      suddenly white and drawn.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But, my lord...&rdquo; began the Colonel.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sir, I am not concerned to hear your reasons,&rdquo; his lordship interrupted
      him harshly. &ldquo;I am on the point of sailing and I have not the time. The
      Governor will hear you, and no doubt deal justly by you.&rdquo; He waved to
      Major Mallard, and Bishop, a crumpled, broken man, allowed himself to be
      led away.
    </p>
    <p>
      To Lord Julian, who went with him, since none deterred him, Bishop
      expressed himself when presently he had sufficiently recovered.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This is one more item to the account of that scoundrel Blood,&rdquo; he said,
      through his teeth. &ldquo;My God, what a reckoning there will be when we meet!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Major Mallard turned away his face that he might conceal his smile, and
      without further words led him a prisoner to the Governor&rsquo;s house, the
      house that so long had been Colonel Bishop&rsquo;s own residence. He was left to
      wait under guard in the hall, whilst Major Mallard went ahead to announce
      him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Bishop was still with Peter Blood when Major Mallard entered. His
      announcement startled them back to realities.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You will be merciful with him. You will spare him all you can for my
      sake, Peter,&rdquo; she pleaded.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To be sure I will,&rdquo; said Blood. &ldquo;But I&rsquo;m afraid the circumstances won&rsquo;t.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She effaced herself, escaping into the garden, and Major Mallard fetched
      the Colonel.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;His excellency the Governor will see you now,&rdquo; said he, and threw wide
      the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Bishop staggered in, and stood waiting.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the table sat a man of whom nothing was visible but the top of a
      carefully curled black head. Then this head was raised, and a pair of blue
      eyes solemnly regarded the prisoner. Colonel Bishop made a noise in his
      throat, and, paralyzed by amazement, stared into the face of his
      excellency the Deputy-Governor of Jamaica, which was the face of the man
      he had been hunting in Tortuga to his present undoing.
    </p>
    <p>
      The situation was best expressed to Lord Willoughby by van der Kuylen as
      the pair stepped aboard the Admiral&rsquo;s flagship.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Id is fery boedigal!&rdquo; he said, his blue eyes twinkling. &ldquo;Cabdain Blood is
      fond of boedry&mdash;you remember de abble-blossoms. So? Ha, ha!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The End
    </p>